Feinstein: Hill inquiry into Libya attack will include questions on Petraeus, FBI | Fox News
 Menu FoxNews.com Politics Search Search Sign in to comment! Politics Home Executive Senate House of Representatives Defense Judiciary Scandals POLITICS Feinstein: Hill inquiry into Libya attack will include questions on Petraeus, FBI Published November 11, 2012 FoxNews.com Facebook 0 Twitter 0 LinkedIn 0   ADVERTISEMENT Sen. Dianne Feinstein, chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, said Sunday the Capitol Hill investigations into the Libya terrorist attack also will address the scandal surrounding CIA Director David Petraeus, including why the FBI failed to notify the committee about the extramarital affair that led to the director’s resignation. The California Democrat told “Fox News Sunday” she found out about Petraeus’ resignation Friday as the rest of world learned the news and described being shocked and “heartbroken.” “We will investigate why the committee didn’t know,” Feinstein said. “We should have been told.” She also said the first committee meeting, scheduled for Thursday, is the start of an inquiry, not a hearing. Feinstein said Petraeus is no longer scheduled to testify but could be summonsed to Capitol Hill for future meetings. A similar, closed-door House intelligence committee hearing also is scheduled for Thursday. Feinstein said she sees “absolutely” no connection between the director’s resignations and the unanswered questions about the Sept. 11 attacks in Benghazi, Libya, in which Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans were killed. She said other major questions the committee will investigate include whether the United States adequately processed previous threats and attacks to increase security around the U.S. Consulate and nearby CIA annex in Benghazi. “Changes were made, but the changes were not adequate,” Feinstein told Fox. Advertisement Politics Videos What does an unstable Iraq mean for US security? Lawmakers renew LBJ's 'unconditional war on poverty'? Political fallout from NJ lane closure scandal, Gates memoir FBI stalls on investigating Tea Party targeting Gen. Jack Keane discusses Gates' revealing book Trending in Politics 1 GOP rep: Require food stamp recipients to work 2 ‘Impeachment’? Dems escalate NJ bridge probe, while some defend Christie 3 Gates: ‘Don’t ask, don’t tell’ fight only time Obama showed ‘passion’ for military issues 4 Cut up the credit cards: States have $5T in debts taxpayers will have to pay 5 White House fights Iran sanctions bill as nuclear deal start date announced Advertisement More on this... Petraeus asserts that resignation is unrelated to Benghazi Petraeus told within last six weeks of probe that found affair Military timeline from night of Benghazi attack begs more questions Fox NewsPolitics Politics Home Executive Senate House of Representatives Defense Judiciary Scandals Presidential Approval Approve 51% Disapprove 47% More details Congressional Approval Approve 13% Disapprove 75% More details FoxNews.com Back to Top ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. All market data delayed 20 minutes. Privacy - Terms - FAQ 
