The Spectacular Triumph of Working Women Around the World - Derek Thompson - The Atlantic
     Continue to the TheAtlantic.com Advertisement The Atlantic Subscribe Now Follow Us Politics Top Stories What It Means to Be a Public Intellectual Immigrant Voting: Not a Crazy Idea Gates: Iraq War Hurt the Afghanistan War Rumors of Chris Christie's Demise Have Been Greatly Exaggerated Obama and the Pope Lead a Class War: Late-Night Comedy Roundup 'The Most Expensive Sheriff in America' Is Getting More Expensive Business Top Stories Why Aren't We Winning The War on Poverty? The Dark Side of Globalization: Why Seattle's 1999 Protesters Were Right Here's Exactly How Much the Government Would Have to Spend to Make Public College Tuition-Free The Poverty Line Was Designed Assuming Every Family Had a Housewife Who Was a 'Skillful Cook' Not Just a Southern Thing: The Changing Geography of American Poverty Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Tech Top Stories The Time I Got Stranded in Antarctica AMA: How a Weird Internet Thing Became a Mainstream Delight Coming Soon: Silicon Valley's Spy Satellites Notice That Flicker? Europe's Lights Are Out-of-Tune With Your Phone What 3D-Printed Cake Tastes Like 'No One Should Die Because They Cannot Afford Healthcare': One Meme's Story Entertainment Top Stories Does Prince Charming Need to Be Reinvented? Now Anyone Can Publish a Sherlock Holmes Story How Masterpiece Stays Timeless How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl 'It Has to Come to You': Why Jim Harrison Writes Patiently There's Nothing Odd About Britney Spears Having a Vegas Act Health Top Stories Living Poor and Uninsured in a Red State Who Defines 'Medical Necessity'? The Electricity-Generating Bicycle Desk Honest 11-Month-Old's Daycare Assessment Kale, Kale Everywhere, but Only Cheetos to Eat Study: Fight Performance Anxiety by Getting Excited Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less Education Top Stories School Wasn't Canceled for Bad Weather in 1882 Extreme Homework The Case for Nagging About Homework Honest 11-Month-Old's Daycare Assessment The Proven Way to Fight Income Inequality: Education How to Teach Kids to Be Grateful: Give Them Less Sexes Top Stories The Female Face of Poverty Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? When Trolls Make Journalism Miserable for Women How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl The Easiest Possible Way to Increase Female Speakers at Conferences Male Fans Made Bettie Page a Star, but Female Fans Made Her an Icon National Top Stories 'The Most Expensive Sheriff in America' Is Getting More Expensive Executed Against the Judgment of 12 Jurors Ice Cream, Chocolate, Coffee, and Beer Notre Dame’s Moral Dilemma Over Birth Control The Supreme Court and the Dragon Poverty in a Cup: Why a Federal Judge Rejected a Florida Drug-Test Requirement Special Report: A User's Guide to 2014 Global Top Stories A Report Card for Humanity: 1900-2050 What You Get When 30 People Draw a World Map From Memory Sierra Leone's Fight for Gender Equality 50 Iranians, One Question: 'If You Could Do Anything You Wanted, What Would You Do?' Robert Gates: The Iraq War Undermined U.S. Efforts in Afghanistan The Time I Got Stranded in Antarctica China Top Stories Legalizing Marijuana Does Not Mean the U.S. Would Lose Ground to China Meet the Chinese Tycoon Who Wants to Buy The New York Times Why China's Global Supremacy Is Not Inevitable China's Eerie Faux-European Ghost Towns A Jittery China Faces 2014 Xi Jinping Eats Some Dumplings at a Restaurant Video Top Stories Sierra Leone's Fight for Gender Equality Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone 'The Mean Dean Drumming Machine' Zen and the Art of Woodworking Inside a Workshop for Custom-Built Motorcycles Shredding the Gnar: A Look at 1950s Skiing Magazine In This Month's Issue Surviving Anxiety Daddy Track: The Case for Paternity Leave Jesse Willms, the Dark Lord of the Internet The Elmore Leonard Paradox A Brief History of the Mile High Club Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Editions Subscribe Newsletters E-books Apps Longreads In Focus Events Just In Honest 11-Month-Old's Daycare Assessment What 3D-Printed Cake Tastes Like By Megan Garber Who Should Decide When People Visit the Doctor? By David Goldhill School Wasn't Canceled for Snow in 1882 By Eleanor Barkhorn Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less The Spectacular Triumph of Working Women Around the World Derek Thompson Mar 7 2012, 10:05 AM ET Tweet More Email Print An appreciation of how far women have come in the world economy -- and how far they still have to go, even in the U.S. Reuters Growth is complicated. But there are a few easy rules. One such decree is that you cannot expect to have a fully functioning economy if you insist on treating half of your adult population like second-class citizens. And yet, many countries insist on doing just that with women. Look at Sudan. The nation placed 128th out of 128 countries surveyed by the Economist Intelligence Unit's second annual Women's Economic Opportunity Index, released Tuesday morning. (Sweden was first. We were 14th.)  "Women in Sudan still do not have access to bank accounts or financial services," the authors write, "and are not free to manage their own financial affairs, even when a woman is widowed and left money by her husband." It's not much better in Yemen, 126th on the list, where it is illegal for women to leave the home "without permission from a male family member or an escort." The triumph of women in the workplace has been one of the great success stories of last 100 years. Remember, in the U.S., it wasn't until 1920 that the states signed a constitutional amendment banning voting discrimination by sex. Less than a century later, the rise of the female worker has added nearly 2 percentage points per year to GDP growth. In Europe, economists estimated that the shrinking gap between male and female employment contributed 25% of Europe's growing wealth in the last two decades. As the Economist once put it: More than China, more than the Internet, and more than banks and central banking, economic growth is driven by women. And economic stagnation is driven by women not working. One in two prime-age women -- that's 1.5 billion in the world -- are not active in the "formal global economy," according to EIU, which means they're either unemployed or working part-time by cleaning, cooking and selling wares and simple services for petty cash. The triumph of female employment and opportunity is quite possibly the most important economic story in the world. That was the case before the recession, and it will be true after the recession. Here is a brief global tour of the state of female education and employment. For my roadmap, I'm using recent studies from the Economist Intelligence Unit, Bank of America economist Neil Dutta, and the U.S. Census. THE UNITED STATES: More Graduates. Equal Work. Less Pay. We begin our world tour at home. If the downturn was sexist, so was the upswing: Both were biased toward men. In the Great Recession, male employment fell by twice the rate of female employment. But in the recovery, jobs have grown three-times faster for guys. As a result, women have recovered only a quarter of the jobs they lost, while men have filled 40%. "We attribute this phenomenon to a few factors," writes Neil Dutta, U.S. economists for Bank of America, in the new report Global Girl Power. In a sentence: Male-dominated like manufacturing and mining bounced back, while some female-heavy industries like education and local government shrunk even as the economy accelerated. For a brief period in the trough, however, women made up a majority of the workforce in the United States for the first moment in U.S. peacetime history. Get used to that picture: You'll be seeing a lot in the future. American women are well-placed to gain over men in the workforce for three big reasons. First, they earned three out of every five higher-ed degrees awarded in the last 10 years, which suggests they will have an advantage in tomorrow's market. Second, as the economy transitions away from male-heavy construction and manufacturing, guys will have to do jobs today that aren't so muscular. Third, the fastest growing jobs in the next ten years are already dominated by women, especially those in health care. But when it comes to wages, equality is elusive. In 2009, the median female wage was 77 cents to the median guy's dollar, according to the U.S. Census. Women earned less, on a per-month basis, than men at every degree level. Here's a graph -- please click to enlarge -- of male (blue) vs. female (red) monthly earnings for selected degrees at community college, four-year colleges, and graduate school. As you can see, even if women dominate the number of graduates, men dominate post-graduate wages across the board -- and their lead appears to grow with schooling years.   What accounts for this widespread, lingering discrepancy of pay? Barriers to career advancement, family choices, office sexism: All of these play a big role. But there two more economic explanations that I hadn't seen before reading the Bank of America report. First, many degrees with lower-than-average pay are dominated by females, and many degrees with higher-than-average pay are dominated by men. In 2009, women accounted for 80% of education degrees and 60% of natural science degrees ... but only 40% of business degrees and less than 20% of engineering and computer science degrees. Second, it seems that female workers have clustered in a small set of industries that have grown very quickly, but also tend to pay less. This is also true in Europe, which is next on our worldwide tour. EUROPE Just Like the United States. But More So. In the European Union, as in the United States, women go to school more, earn less, and are scarce at the corporate executive floor. The glass ceiling extends across the Atlantic Ocean. EU women hold only 20% of management positions -- and less than 3% of senior managerial roles, according to BofA. Seen at this canopy level, Europe appears as male-dominated as the United States. At the roots of the labor market, women have even greater educational advantages. The typical European female worker has three more years of education than the guys, and the last decade produced 40% more female graduates than male. In fact, Europe was the overwhelming winner of the Economist Intelligence Unit's Women's Economic Opportunity Index, grabbing the world's top seven spots thanks to "robust, gender-sensitive legislation and progressive cultural norms," especially in the north. "Northern Europe dominated our list because both the laws and social norms are favorable to women," explained Sandra Taylor, key spokesperson for the index and report. "Political participation among women is greater. There is more evidence of equal pay for equal work and access to finance for women."  In 2010, EU women earned a sixth less than men despite totally crushing it at the school level. One reason to expect this wage gap will disappear quickly is that women have big leads among education, health care, business, and law graduates -- the basic elements of a service economy. One reason to expect it won't change quickly is that austerity has already squeezed education and health care hiring. THE REST OF THE WORLD The Dark Side of the Industrial Revolution As a general rule, women are thriving in countries that are rich, stable democracies. Unfortunately, much of the world is neither rich, nor stable, nor democratic. These are the countries that deserve our greatest attention. In the 128-nation Women's Economic Opportunity Index, "it's in the 80s, 90s, and 100s where the greatest opportunities for empowerment are," Sandra Taylor said. "That's where growth is going to come from. Our index offers a target for where we should target interventions to help women, and what interventions we can realistically make." The simplest explanation for the lack of female opportunities in developing countries lives in the word "developing." These nations are decades behind Europe and the U.S. in wealth, education, service sector jobs, and formal economic development. It lends some clarity to view the worldwide story of women through the lens of manufacturing. Manufacturing is -- and has often been -- a male-dominated industry. As the United States and Europe off-shored manufacturing, they moved toward a service economy that might benefit women. As this industrial base moved to China and India, developing economies had manufacturing revolutions that disproportionately employed men. As advanced, heavy machines come to dominate world agriculture, we could see more women temporarily squeezed out of formal jobs. As these countries get richer, they might become service economies with highly educated women, too. But the fact is, some economic growth is biased toward guys. The ticket off the farm and the streets -- where more than a billion women work in the so-called "informal economy" -- is education. There is a happy story to tell here. In almost every geographic region, women are catching up to men in school years, as the BofA graph above shows (click to expand, it's a great one). But some of the world's most exciting emerging economies are backtracking. In India, the school-year gap between men and women has grown by 50% in the last 40 years. *** We end where we started, at home. In the United States, we ponder the end of men and economists discuss ways to retrain guys to be better suited to the modern economy. This doesn't look to many people like good news, and for millions of men trying to support families, it is a real, and addressable, economic tragedy. But seen from the chockoblock bazaars of Hyderabad, where women push their wares on tourists, and the straw huts of Kenya, where they walk half marathons to and from the nearest water source, it does represent a triumph of economics and development that in the advanced world, policy makers have cause to advise their male populations to "be more like women." Inequalities exist in the modern world, if not in our laws, then in our culture and practices. But looking across countries and decades, one can't help but see that the long arc of history is bending toward women, and is still bending. Jump to comments Tweet Email Print Presented by Derek Thompson is a senior editor at The Atlantic, where he oversees the Business Channel. More Thompson has written for Slate, BusinessWeek, and the Daily Beast. He has also appeared as a guest on radio and television networks, including NPR, the BBC, CNBC, and MSNBC. All Posts RSS Follow @dkthomp Try 2 Free Issues! Go Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Edition Get Today's Top Stories in Your Inbox (preview) Email Address The Female Face of Poverty Maria Shriver Jan 8, 2014 Robert Gates: The War in Iraq Hurt the U.S. in Afghanistan Conor Friedersdorf Jan 8, 2014 Why Politicians Should Stop Focusing on Income Inequality W. Bradford Wilcox Jan 8, 2014 The Time I Got Stranded in Antarctica Douglas Fox Jan 7, 2014 Video More Video Sierra Leone's Fight for Gender Equality Tweet What It Means to Be a Public Intellectual Is Dreaming of Prince Charming Problematic? Exaggerated Rumors of Chris Christie's Demise Trouble Mounts for Joe Arpaio, the 'Most Expensive Sheriff in America' ‹ › Elsewhere on the web Sponsored Links Join the Discussion After you comment, click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register. blog comments powered by Disqus Close Video Class Warfare Highlights from late-night comedy Writers Up James Hamblin Honest 11-Month-Old's Daycare Assessment Jan 8, 2014 Jordan Weissmann The Poverty Line Was Designed Assuming Every Family Had a Housewife Who Was a 'Skillful Cook' Jan 8, 2014 Robinson Meyer Notice That Flicker? Europe's Lights Are Out-of-Tune With Your Phone Jan 8, 2014 Megan Garber What 3D-Printed Cake Tastes Like Jan 8, 2014 David A. Graham Rumors of Chris Christie's Demise Have Been Greatly Exaggerated Jan 8, 2014 Rebecca J. Rosen 'No One Should Die Because They Cannot Afford Healthcare': One Meme's Story Jan 8, 2014 Olga Khazan Kale, Kale Everywhere, but Only Cheetos to Eat Jan 8, 2014 Eleanor Barkhorn School Wasn't Canceled for Bad Weather in 1882 Jan 8, 2014 Alexis C. Madrigal Where Do We Go From Here? 8 Hypotheses About Tech in 2014 Jan 8, 2014 Ta-Nehisi Coates What It Means to Be a Public Intellectual Jan 8, 2014 Matthew O'Brien Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Jan 8, 2014 Julie Beck Study: Fight Performance Anxiety by Getting Excited Jan 8, 2014 Andrew Cohen 'The Most Expensive Sheriff in America' Is Getting More Expensive Jan 8, 2014 Conor Friedersdorf Robert Gates: The Iraq War Undermined U.S. Efforts in Afghanistan Jan 8, 2014 James Fallows Ice Cream, Chocolate, Coffee, and Beer Jan 7, 2014 Emma Green How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl Jan 7, 2014 Derek Thompson The War on Poverty Turns 50: Why Aren't We Winning? Jan 6, 2014 Molly Ball The Agony of Frank Luntz Jan 6, 2014 Matt Schiavenza Legalizing Marijuana Does Not Mean the U.S. Would Lose Ground to China Jan 5, 2014 Sam Price-Waldman Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone Jan 3, 2014 Steve Clemons China's Latest Food Scandal: Fox-Tainted Donkey Meat Jan 2, 2014 Garance Franke-Ruta 3 Big Obamacare Numbers to Start Off the New Year Dec 31, 2013 Kasia Cieplak-Mayr von Baldegg The Most Powerful Images of 2013 Dec 28, 2013 Katherine Wells The Other Darwin Dec 28, 2013 Down More in Business Why Aren't We Winning The War on Poverty? Derek Thompson The Dark Side of Globalization: Why Seattle's 1999 Protesters Were Right Noah Smith Here's Exactly How Much the Government Would Have to Spend to Make Public College Tuition-Free Jordan Weissmann In Focus A Trip to the Farne Islands Most Popular 1 What It Means to Be a Public Intellectual 2 What You Get When 30 People Draw a World Map From Memory 3 How Netflix Reverse Engineered Hollywood 4 The Female Face of Poverty 5 School Wasn't Canceled for Bad Weather in 1882 6 Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? 7 The Poverty Line Was Designed Assuming Every Family Had a Housewife Who Was a 'Skillful Cook 8 'The Most Expensive Sheriff in America' Is Getting More Expensive 9 A Trip to the Farne Islands 10 If You Really Care About Ending Poverty, Stop Talking About Inequality Just In Honest 11-Month-Old's Daycare Assessment James Hamblin The Poverty Line Was Designed Assuming Every Family Had a Housewife Who Was a 'Skillful Cook' Jordan Weissmann 50 Iranians, One Question: 'If You Could Do Anything You Wanted, What Would You Do?' Golnaz Esfandiari ATLANTIC MEDIA The Wire The International Space Station Gets Four More Years Trend Alert: Beards! BridgeGate: Chris Christie Administration May Have Violated Public Records Law, Too More from The Wire Atlantic Cities A Self-Balancing Electric Skateboard That Rides Like You're Flying San Francisco Is Going to Charge the Google Bus to Use Its Bus Stops The Magical Beef-Based Transit System of 'Burgertown' More from Atlantic Cities Quartz Chen Guangbiao’s ridiculous business card reminds Chinese why they don’t trust philanthropists Popular porn search terms show that East Asia has a serious Japan fetish The one thing young Americans won’t give up More from Quartz National Journal Explosions Coming Over Mountaintop-Mining Rule Former White House Environmental Aide Helping Companies Cope With Climate Congress Deserves Public's Contempt for Its Obsession With Destroying Obamacare More from National Journal Longreads How One Magazine Shaped Investigative Journalism in America How to Cure Reader’s Block Stories About Unlikeable People More from Longreads Follow The Atlantic App store Facebook Twitter Linkedin Google Plus Tumblr RSS E-Newsletters Today's Top Stories This Week This Month New at In Focus Atlantic Cities 5 Best Columns Today's News Information FAQ Subscribe Help Masthead Store Emporium Jobs Privacy Site Map Terms and Conditions Advertise Advertising Guidelines Press Contact Us Special Reports Atlantic Scene Ebook Events Atlantic Media Subscribe Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price STATE AK AL AR AZ CA CO CT DC DE FL GA HI IA ID IL IN KS KY LA MA MD ME MI MN MO MS MT NC ND NE NH NJ NM NV NY OH OK OR PA RI SC SD TN TX UT VA VT WA WI WV WY YT Next ► Fraud alert regarding The Atlantic Copyright © 2014 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. CDN powered by Edgecast Networks. Insights powered by Parsely . Powered by the Parse.ly Publisher Platform (P3). 
