Why Greg Smith Is 'Dead Right' About Goldman Sachs - Michael Hirsh - The Atlantic
     Continue to the TheAtlantic.com Advertisement The Atlantic Subscribe Now Follow Us Politics Top Stories Should Felons Lose the Right to Vote? When Misogynists Make Journalism Miserable for Women Melissa Harris-Perry: The Smartest Nerd in the Room The War on Carbon: Late-Night Comedy Roundup What TSA Left Out of the Cartoon It Made for Your Kids Counterterrorism and the Totalitarian Temptation Business Top Stories Why Aren't We Winning The War on Poverty? The Dark Side of Globalization: Why Seattle's 1999 Protesters Were Right Here's Exactly How Much the Government Would Have to Spend to Make Public College Tuition-Free Why You Should Forget About the Poverty Rate Why Do Tech Companies End Up Where They Are? Why America's Doctor Shortage Might Mean Trouble for Obamacare Tech Top Stories AMA: How a Weird Internet Thing Became a Mainstream Delight Silicon Valley's New Spy Satellites The Weird, Wondrous Gadgets Introduced at CESes Past The Time I Got Stranded in Antarctica International Fugitive Is 'Everlastingly Grateful' the 'Worst Software on the Planet' Is No Longer Named After Him A Longtime Pilot on the Aspen Crash Entertainment Top Stories 'It Has to Come to You': Why Jim Harrison Writes Slowly How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Mean Girl It's Not Wrong for Britney Spears to Have a Vegas Act Is This the Anticlimactic End of the Michael Vick Era in Philadelphia? Male Fans Made Bettie Page a Star, but Female Fans Made Her an Icon Top Tens, Community's Comeback: The Week's Best Pop-Culture Writing Health Top Stories The Electricity-Generating Bicycle Desk How to Walk on Hot Coals: The Singular Power of Belief 6 Questions That Will Determine Whether Obamacare Is a Success in 2014 Don't Think Too Much After a Concussion The Shape of Your Head and the Shape of Your Mind Parenting Through Chronic Physical Pain Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less Education Top Stories Extreme Homework The Proven Way to Fight Income Inequality: Education The Case for Nagging Kids About Their Homework How to Teach Kids to Be Grateful: Give Them Less Here's Exactly How Much the Government Would Have to Spend to Make Public College Tuition-Free There's a Cheaper, More Effective Way to Train Teachers Sexes Top Stories When Misogynist Trolls Make Journalism Miserable for Women The Easiest Possible Way to Increase Female Speakers at Conferences Male Fans Made Bettie Page a Star, but Female Fans Made Her an Icon How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl Everyone You Know Really Did Just Get Engaged Two Decades After Brandon Teena's Murder, a Look Back at Falls City National Top Stories Executed Against the Judgment of 12 Jurors The Supreme Court and the Dragon The Year Ahead in Court Battles Ice Cream, Chocolate, Coffee, and Beer Notre Dame’s Moral Dilemma Over Birth Control Poverty in a Cup: Why a Federal Judge Rejected a Florida Drug-Test Requirement Special Report: A User's Guide to 2014 Global Top Stories On Getting Naked in Antarctica The U.S. Is Giving Up on Middle East Democracy—and That's a Mistake China's Eerie Faux-European Ghost Towns Extreme Homework The Moral Case for Ending America's Cold War with Iran Will the World Grow More Authoritarian in 2014? China Top Stories Legalizing Marijuana Does Not Mean the U.S. Would Lose Ground to China Meet the Chinese Tycoon Who Wants to Buy The New York Times Why China's Global Supremacy Is Not Inevitable China's Eerie Faux-European Ghost Towns A Jittery China Faces 2014 Xi Jinping Eats Some Dumplings at a Restaurant Video Top Stories Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone 'The Mean Dean Drumming Machine' Zen and the Art of Woodworking Inside a Workshop for Custom-Built Motorcycles Shredding the Gnar: A Look at 1950s Skiing The Most Powerful Images of 2013 Magazine In This Month's Issue Surviving Anxiety Daddy Track: The Case for Paternity Leave Jesse Willms, the Dark Lord of the Internet The Elmore Leonard Paradox A Brief History of the Mile High Club Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Editions Subscribe Newsletters E-books Apps Longreads In Focus Events Just In Ice Cream, Chocolate, Coffee, and Beer On Getting Naked in Antarctica By Svati Kirsten Narula Behold, the Electricity-Generating Bicycle Desk By James Hamblin Notre Dame's Moral Dilemma on Birth Control By Emma Green Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less Why Greg Smith Is 'Dead Right' About Goldman Sachs Michael Hirsh Mar 16 2012, 10:09 AM ET Tweet More Email Print The resignation letter heard round the world proves what we already know: Washington would like to think it can change the culture of Wall Street -- and it can't. OK, so who do we believe? In a cover story in New York magazine last month melodramatically headlined "The Emasculation of Wall Street," journalist Gabriel Sherman made the case that the big financial firms were engaged in "something that might be called soul-searching" about their many sins and their wildly overcompensated contribution to the U.S. economy. Wall Street, under the whip of the giant Dodd-Frank law, was learning to behave. Reduced compensation packages and increased capital requirements were going to tame or snuff out some of the riskier and most reckless practices that brought the nation to the edge of a second Great Depression, Sherman wrote. Best of all, the domestication of Wall Street would redirect the best minds in the nation back into useful things like real engineering rather than financial engineering. Cool! MORE FROM NATIONAL JOURNAL Romney's Bad Poker Face 2012's Known Unknowns Say Bye-Bye to the Mommy Wars Now comes Greg Smith, an apparently conscience-stricken renegade from Goldman Sachs, who tells us that not only has nothing changed in the firm's culture, but he "can honestly say that the environment now is as toxic and destructive as I have ever seen it." Can these two things both be true? Actually, maybe yes. But the larger point is: We need to pay a lot more attention to Greg Smith than to Gabriel Sherman. There is, first of all, every reason to think Smith was telling the truth. Some smart observers of the Street, like the Pulitzer-Prize-winning author ("Lords of Finance") Liaquat Ahamed, say that while Sherman is correct to say Wall Street is much more restrained at the moment, much else has not changed. "Greg Smith is dead right," Ahamed wrote me in an email today. "Goldman and all the other investment banks are plagued by conflicts of interest. The problem is that over time all of them, but especially Goldman, have shifted from the business of advising clients or raising capital for clients to trading on their own account. I have the impression (from books about the Pecora hearings) that in the 1930s Glass Steagall was motivated as much by outrage at conflicts of interest (e.g. Citibank famously stuffing the accounts of its deposit holders with foreign bonds that then went bankrupt) as the desire to make the banking system more stable." But we didn't get a new Glass-Steagall. Instead, courtesy of Tim Geithner and Co., we got the milquetoasty Volcker Rule (which the Treasury only backed, after a year of ignoring Paul Volcker, when Barack Obama insisted on it, as I have previously written), dubious rules about unwinding Wall Street's still-giant firms in a crisis, and a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that is under constant assault on Capitol Hill. So it beggars common sense to think that we're really getting a new Wall Street. And none other than Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein--whom Smith attacked yesterday for losing "hold on the firm's culture"--has already conceded this point. As I wrote in my 2010 book "Capital Offense," Goldman Sachs became the biggest earner and most prestigious firm on Wall Street in part because it had no scruples about simultaneously betting against products it was selling. Goldman justified this by saying that it had more sophisticated customers, like big institutional and professional investors, who didn't mind if Goldman placed hedges against the very investments it was touting to other clients. Back in 2010, Blankfein admitted, in effect, precisely what Greg Smith is alleging now. In the now-famous hearings held by Sen. Carl Levin's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, Levin tried to get Blankfein to concede that Goldman was morally wrong to bet on the sly against securities that it had touted as solid investments to its clients. No, no, the Goldman CEO demurred, that's not how the financial system works any more. "There's been a change in the sociology of the business in the last 10 to 15 years," Blankfein explained patiently. "Somewhere along the line," he said, big clients stopped asking investment banks for good advice and started to seek them out only to set up deals for them -- merely to underwrite the transactions and be on the other side of them. That forced Goldman to transform itself from a private partnership in the late '90s into a publicly traded company in order to obtain the big-time capital it needed to create such deals. It also apparently gave Goldman carte blanche to shaft any helpless investor on the other side of those transactions. Liquidity was all. Nothing else mattered. We have heard again and again in the past two years how Dodd-Frank is delivering up to us a new Wall Street, how banking is becoming blessedly "boring" again. But Greg Smith now joins a very small group -- an absurdly small group -- of truth-tellers who seem to be telling us that, for the most part, things still work the way they used to. One of Smith's predecessors in this select company, Frank Partnoy, exposed the practices of Morgan Stanley back in the 1990s--a firm that he wrote had evolved from a stodgy white-shoe bank into a furious profit machine that was mainly involved in speculation and scamming, using arcane derivatives and complex new packages of debt obligations and interest-rate payments that Morgan foisted on customers who barely understood them. Another whistle-blower, Eric Kolchinsky, a former Moody's managing director, revealed in congressional hearings in late 2009 that even into the year after the financial crisis, the firm continued to deceive investors by inflating ratings on dubious securities. How much do we expect this to change? Not much. Yes, as Gabriel Sherman wrote, Wall Street is going through something of an existential crisis. The Volcker Rule, as shot full of holes as it is, may help to prevent FDIC money intended for traditional banks from being used to bail out firms that continue to deploy hedge-fund practices. But if Sherman had it right, and the habits and culture that pervaded Goldman and Morgan Stanley have been fundamentally altered and have "boxed in" the firms since they were forced to convert to bank holding companies during the crisis (in order to tap the Fed's discount window), then why is Greg Smith writing that even in the aftermath of Dodd-Frank, the Levin hearings and a giant civil suit that Goldman settled (without admitting wrongdoing), the firm is as vicious as it's ever been? "Even after the S.E.C., Fabulous Fab, Abacus, God's work, Carl Levin, Vampire Squids? No humility? I mean, come on. Integrity? It is eroding," Smith writes. So there's even less integrity than there used to be? That's especially scary considering that giant banks are still giants and are going to remain so and that they are still having trouble passing stress tests, as we saw this week. There is nothing to fix the too-big-to-fail problem beyond a host of as-yet-unwritten "living wills" that are supposed to tell regulators how to liquidate the banks in a crisis. The largest surviving banks--mainly Goldman, Citi, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Morgan Stanley, and Wells Fargo--are growing bigger and more global relative to the rest of the industry. They are pushing out smaller banks in key areas, having increased their overall market shares in deposits, mortgages, credit cards, home-equity loans, and small-business loans. Beyond that, at more than $700 trillion, the derivatives trade is already much larger than it was during the 2008 crisis. And meager as it is, Dodd-Frank is in the process of being gutted by the GOP-led House (never mind what might happen if Mitt Romney gets elected president, because he has vowed to repeal it). Regulators are starved for staff. Eric Kolchinsky, the former Moody's derivatives expert, in a conversation with me today, said "things obviously have not changed. Dodd-Frank in my estimation doesn't really do much at all," especially to change the ethics on Wall Street or to help protect Wall Street's clients from getting snowed over the super-complex derivatives they are still being sold. Instead, Dodd-Frank "really just focuses on paperwork without any changes in practices," Kolchinsky said. "What happened is that some of the products that made that kind of money were directly outlawed. You can't do what you did last time. But the attitude [on Wall Street] is, 'Let's find something else.' That hasn't changed. What Greg Smith was doing, as head of equity derivatives, that's another complex product, and it's in that complexity where the banks can make a lot of money." Indeed, it's no surprise that the bank lobby threw most of its energy during the Dodd-Frank legislative process into watering down rules requiring over-the-counter derivatives to trade on an open and supervised exchange. The reason is that derivatives and structured finance products traded off exchange were still a major source of Wall Street's profitability because they were not exposed to market and risk valuation. And the more complex they are, the easier it is for the banks to charge their customers huge spreads. In other words, the market is still rigged and full of scams, just as Frank Partnoy warned back in the 1990s. Who to believe? I think I'll go with Greg Smith over Gabriel Sherman. You can take that to the bank. Source: Reuters > Jump to comments Tweet Email Print Presented by Michael Hirsh is chief correspondent for National Journal. All Posts Try 2 Free Issues! Go Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Edition Get Today's Top Stories in Your Inbox (preview) Email Address The Elmore Leonard Paradox Christopher Orr Dec 22, 2013 The U.S. Is Giving Up on Middle East Democracy—and That's a Mistake Shadi Hamid and Peter Mandaville Jan 7, 2014 Britney Spears's Epilogue in Vegas Noah Berlatsky Jan 6, 2014 Mean Girls Are Making a Comeback on Television Emma Green Jan 7, 2014 Video More Video Zen and the Art of Woodworking Tweet Why You Should Ignore the Poverty Rate Dealing With Icy Weather 'Ask Me Any Thing': A Weird Internet Thing Turned Mainstream Delight Notre Dame's Moral Dilemma on Birth Control ‹ › Elsewhere on the web Sponsored Links Join the Discussion After you comment, click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register. blog comments powered by Disqus Close Video The War on Carbon Highlights from late-night comedy Writers Up James Fallows Ice Cream, Chocolate, Coffee, and Beer Jan 7, 2014 Douglas Fox The Time I Got Stranded in Antarctica Jan 7, 2014 Robinson Meyer International Fugitive Is 'Everlastingly Grateful' the 'Worst Software on the Planet' Is No Longer Named After Him Jan 7, 2014 Rebecca J. Rosen Thousands of the World's Internet-Connected Things in One Place Jan 7, 2014 Emma Green How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl Jan 7, 2014 Jordan Weissmann Why You Should Forget About the Poverty Rate Jan 7, 2014 James Hamblin The Electricity-Generating Bicycle Desk That Would Power the World Jan 7, 2014 Eleanor Barkhorn Extreme Homework Jan 7, 2014 Conor Friedersdorf What TSA Left Out of the Cartoon It Made for Your Kids Jan 7, 2014 Olga Khazan 6 Questions That Will Determine Whether Obamacare Is a Success in 2014 Jan 7, 2014 Ta-Nehisi Coates The Smartest Nerd in the Room Jan 6, 2014 Megan Garber What the World Looks Like (When You're a Crab Net) Jan 6, 2014 Andrew Cohen Poverty in a Cup: Why a Federal Judge Rejected a Florida Drug-Test Requirement Jan 6, 2014 Derek Thompson The War on Poverty Turns 50: Why Aren't We Winning? Jan 6, 2014 Molly Ball The Agony of Frank Luntz Jan 6, 2014 Matt Schiavenza Legalizing Marijuana Does Not Mean the U.S. Would Lose Ground to China Jan 5, 2014 Matthew O'Brien Why America's Doctor Shortage Might Mean Trouble for Obamacare Jan 3, 2014 Sam Price-Waldman Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone Jan 3, 2014 Julie Beck Study: Training Brains for Self-Control May Not Help in the Real World Jan 3, 2014 Steve Clemons China's Latest Food Scandal: Fox-Tainted Donkey Meat Jan 2, 2014 Garance Franke-Ruta 3 Big Obamacare Numbers to Start Off the New Year Dec 31, 2013 David A. Graham Why Has Republican Belief in Evolution Declined So Much? Dec 31, 2013 Kasia Cieplak-Mayr von Baldegg The Most Powerful Images of 2013 Dec 28, 2013 Katherine Wells The Other Darwin Dec 28, 2013 Down More in Business Why Aren't We Winning The War on Poverty? Derek Thompson The Dark Side of Globalization: Why Seattle's 1999 Protesters Were Right Noah Smith Here's Exactly How Much the Government Would Have to Spend to Make Public College Tuition-Free Jordan Weissmann In Focus Icy Days and Nights Most Popular 1 How Netflix Reverse Engineered Hollywood 2 When Misogynist Trolls Make Journalism Miserable for Women 3 The Agony of Frank Luntz 4 AMA: How a Weird Internet Thing Became a Mainstream Delight 5 Why You Should Forget About the Poverty Rate 6 Icy Days and Nights 7 How to Teach Kids to Be Grateful: Give Them Less 8 The Electricity-Generating Bicycle Desk That Would Power the World 9 Surviving Anxiety 10 On Getting Naked in Antarctica Just In Ice Cream, Chocolate, Coffee, and Beer James Fallows The Time I Got Stranded in Antarctica Douglas Fox International Fugitive Is 'Everlastingly Grateful' the 'Worst Software on the Planet' Is No Longer Named After Him Robinson Meyer ATLANTIC MEDIA The Wire Fox News Is Worried About a New Roger Ailes Biography That's Not Even Out Yet We Are on the Cusp of a Velveeta Shortage Former Guantanamo Detainee With Possible al-Qaeda Ties May Have Played a Role in Benghazi More from The Wire Atlantic Cities Peak Polar Vortex, a Visual Guide The Arctic 'Steam Fog' Over the Great Lakes, Seen From Space Dispatches From America's Coldest Town More from Atlantic Cities Quartz China’s solution to smog-choked cities is to boost coal production six-fold Is China doing more to help the global economy than Germany? American households are 40% more likely to have a VCR than a video game console More from Quartz National Journal Toxic Debate Ahead on Hazardous-Waste Bills in House API Leader Says Oil Industry United in Seeking End to Ban on Crude Exports White House Pushes Back on Gates: Biden 'Has Been One of the Leading Statesmen of His Time' More from National Journal Longreads How One Magazine Shaped Investigative Journalism in America How to Cure Reader’s Block Stories About Unlikeable People More from Longreads Follow The Atlantic App store Facebook Twitter Linkedin Google Plus Tumblr RSS E-Newsletters Today's Top Stories This Week This Month New at In Focus Atlantic Cities 5 Best Columns Today's News Information FAQ Subscribe Help Masthead Store Emporium Jobs Privacy Site Map Terms and Conditions Advertise Advertising Guidelines Press Contact Us Special Reports Atlantic Scene Ebook Events Atlantic Media Subscribe Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price STATE AK AL AR AZ CA CO CT DC DE FL GA HI IA ID IL IN KS KY LA MA MD ME MI MN MO MS MT NC ND NE NH NJ NM NV NY OH OK OR PA RI SC SD TN TX UT VA VT WA WI WV WY YT Next ► Fraud alert regarding The Atlantic Copyright © 2014 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. CDN powered by Edgecast Networks. Insights powered by Parsely . Powered by the Parse.ly Publisher Platform (P3). 
