The Strange (and Formerly Sexist) Economics of Engagement Rings - Matthew O'Brien - The Atlantic
     Continue to the TheAtlantic.com Advertisement The Atlantic Subscribe Now Follow Us Politics Top Stories What It Means to Be a Public Intellectual Immigrant Voting: Not a Crazy Idea Gates: Iraq War Hurt the Afghanistan War Medicare Part D's Hopeful Lessons for Obamacare An Awkward Question for Robert Gates: Has the Deep State Taken Over? Second-Class Citizens: How D.C. and Puerto Rico Lose Out on Democracy Business Top Stories Why Aren't We Winning The War on Poverty? The Dark Side of Globalization: Why Seattle's 1999 Protesters Were Right Here's Exactly How Much the Government Would Have to Spend to Make Public College Tuition-Free The Poverty Line Was Designed Assuming Every Family Had a Housewife Who Was a 'Skillful Cook' Not Just a Southern Thing: The Changing Geography of American Poverty Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Tech Top Stories The Time I Got Stranded in Antarctica AMA: How a Weird Internet Thing Became a Mainstream Delight Coming Soon: Silicon Valley's Spy Satellites What the 150,000 Attendees of CES Are Doing Right Now Notice That Flicker? Europe's Lights Are Out-of-Tune With Your Phone What 3D-Printed Cake Tastes Like Entertainment Top Stories Accordions: So Hot Right Now Does Prince Charming Need to Be Reinvented? How Masterpiece Stays Timeless Great News: Now Anyone Can Write and Publish a Sherlock Holmes Story How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl 'It Has to Come to You': Why Jim Harrison Writes Patiently Health Top Stories Concern About the Soul’s Purity Is Not Just for the Religious Living Poor and Uninsured in a Red State Who Defines 'Medical Necessity'? Honest 11-Month-Old's Daycare Assessment Kale, Kale Everywhere, but Only Cheetos to Eat Study: Fight Performance Anxiety by Getting Excited Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less Education Top Stories What's Ahead for Education in 2014 School Wasn't Canceled for Bad Weather in 1882 Extreme Homework Honest 11-Month-Old's Daycare Assessment The Proven Way to Fight Income Inequality: Education The Case for Nagging Kids About Their Homework Sexes Top Stories Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? The Female Face of Poverty When Trolls Make Journalism Miserable for Women Sierra Leone's Fight for Gender Equality How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl The Easiest Possible Way to Increase Female Speakers at Conferences National Top Stories 'The Most Expensive Sheriff in America' Is Getting More Expensive Executed Against the Judgment of 12 Jurors Ice Cream, Chocolate, Coffee, and Beer Notre Dame’s Moral Dilemma Over Birth Control The Supreme Court and the Dragon Poverty in a Cup: Why a Federal Judge Rejected a Florida Drug-Test Requirement Special Report: A User's Guide to 2014 Global Top Stories A Report Card for Humanity: 1900-2050 Gates, Obama, and Ducking Difficult Choices in the Middle East 50 Iranians, One Question: 'If You Could Do Anything You Wanted, What Would You Do?' The Wedding That a U.S. Drone Strike Turned Into a Funeral Sierra Leone's Fight for Gender Equality Robert Gates: The Iraq War Undermined U.S. Efforts in Afghanistan China Top Stories Legalizing Marijuana Does Not Mean the U.S. Would Lose Ground to China Meet the Chinese Tycoon Who Wants to Buy The New York Times Why China's Global Supremacy Is Not Inevitable China's Eerie Faux-European Ghost Towns A Jittery China Faces 2014 Xi Jinping Eats Some Dumplings at a Restaurant Video Top Stories Sierra Leone's Fight for Gender Equality Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone 'The Mean Dean Drumming Machine' Zen and the Art of Woodworking Inside a Workshop for Custom-Built Motorcycles Shredding the Gnar: A Look at 1950s Skiing Magazine In This Month's Issue Surviving Anxiety Daddy Track: The Case for Paternity Leave Jesse Willms, the Dark Lord of the Internet The Elmore Leonard Paradox A Brief History of the Mile High Club Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Editions Subscribe Newsletters E-books Apps Longreads In Focus Events Just In What the 150,000 Attendees of CES Are Doing Right Now Mistakes in the Middle East By David Rohde The Poverty-Preventing 'Housewife' By Jordan Weissmann The Rise of the Accordion By Hallie Golden Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less The Strange (and Formerly Sexist) Economics of Engagement Rings Matthew O'Brien Apr 5 2012, 9:44 AM ET Tweet More Email Print Diamonds are forever, but the meaning of the diamond engagement ring has changed dramatically in the last century. Today's symbol of love was once something more like virginity insurance. Norman Chan/Shutterstock Why do men buy diamond rings for our fiancées? There's the emotional story. We enjoy making grand gestures of commitment to the people we love. Behind that, there's the marketing story. DeBeers' historic ad campaign, crafted by the real-life mad men at N.W. Ayers, convinced generations of lovers that diamond bands were synonymous with eternal devotion. But behind that, there is economic story that is just as important and fascinating. *** Once upon a time, diamond rings weren't just gifts. They were, frankly, virginity insurance. A now-obsolete law called the "Breach of Promise to Marry" once allowed women to sue men for breaking off an engagement. Back then, there was a high premium on women being virgins when they married -- or at least when they got engaged. Surveys from the 1940s show that roughly half of engaged couples reported being intimate before the big day. If the groom-to-be walked out after he and the bride-to-be had sex, that left her in a precarious position. From a social angle, she had been permanently "damaged." From an economic angle, she had lost her market value. So Breach of Promise to Marry was born. But in the 1930s, states began striking down the "Breach of Promise to Marry" law. By 1945, 16 states representing nearly half of the nation's population had made Breach of Promise a historical relic. At the same time, the diamond engagement ring began its transformation from decorative to de rigueur. Legal scholar  Margaret Brinig doesn't think that's a coincidence, and she has the math to prove it. Regressing the percent of people living in states without Breach of Promise against a handful of other variables -- including advertising, per capita income and the price of diamonds -- Brinig found that this legal change was actually the  most significant factor in the rise of the diamond engagement ring. It's historically plausible. The initial mini-surge in diamond imports came in 1935, four years before DeBeers launched its celebrated advertising campaign. What's going on here? Let's think like an economist. An engaged couple aren't all that different from a borrower and a lender. The woman is lending her hand in marriage to the man, who promises to tie the knot at a later date. In the days of Breach of Promise, the woman would do this on an unsecured basis -- that is, the man didn't have to pledge any collateral -- because the law provided her something akin to bankruptcy protection. Put simply, if the man didn't fulfill his obligation to marry, the woman had legal recourse. This calculus changed once the law changed. Suddenly, women wanted an upfront financial assurance from their men. Basically, collateral. That way, if the couple never made it down the aisle, she'd at least be left with something. And that something was almost always small and shiny. The diamond ring was insurance. So, should a jilted bride give back the engagement ring? Today, the answer is often yes. But back when rings first came into vogue, part of the point was that she wouldn't. It was a security against a default on the engagement. The good news is that this seems so alien to us today. Women have their own careers. They earn more degrees. And, for the younger generation, they out-earn men. More importantly, the stigma against premarital sex has disappeared. A broken engagement isn't a lasting financial disaster for a woman like it was before. The diamond engagement ring has itself undergone a transformation. It's no longer a security. It's just about signaling nowadays. It's anachronistic. But don't try telling your girlfriend that. > Jump to comments Tweet Email Print Presented by Matthew O'Brien Matthew O'Brien is a senior associate editor at The Atlantic covering business and economics. He has previously written for The New Republic. All Posts Follow @ObsoleteDogma Try 2 Free Issues! Go Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Edition Get Today's Top Stories in Your Inbox (preview) Email Address The Best Way to Fight Stage Fright? Get Pumped Julie Beck Jan 8, 2014 No Vote, Greater Poverty: The Plight of D.C. and Puerto Rico Daniel Weeks 7:00 AM ET In Books, Movies, and Media, the Most Popular Title Word Is 'New' Robinson Meyer Jan 8, 2014 The 'Housewife' Prevents Poverty, According to the Government Jordan Weissmann Jan 8, 2014 Video More Video Sierra Leone's Fight for Gender Equality Tweet America's Failures in the Middle East Accordions: So Hot Right Now A Report Card for Humanity What It Means to Be a Public Intellectual ‹ › Elsewhere on the web Sponsored Links Join the Discussion After you comment, click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register. blog comments powered by Disqus Close Video Class Warfare Highlights from late-night comedy Writers Up Megan Garber What the 150,000 Attendees of CES Are Doing Right Now 9:43 AM ET Eleanor Barkhorn What's Ahead for Education in 2014 7:46 AM ET Conor Friedersdorf An Awkward Question for Robert Gates: Has the Deep State Taken Over? 7:30 AM ET James Hamblin Honest 11-Month-Old's Daycare Assessment Jan 8, 2014 Jordan Weissmann The Poverty Line Was Designed Assuming Every Family Had a Housewife Who Was a 'Skillful Cook' Jan 8, 2014 Robinson Meyer Notice That Flicker? Europe's Lights Are Out-of-Tune With Your Phone Jan 8, 2014 David A. Graham Rumors of Chris Christie's Demise Have Been Greatly Exaggerated Jan 8, 2014 Rebecca J. Rosen 'No One Should Die Because They Cannot Afford Healthcare': One Meme's Story Jan 8, 2014 Olga Khazan Kale, Kale Everywhere, but Only Cheetos to Eat Jan 8, 2014 Alexis C. Madrigal Where Do We Go From Here? 8 Hypotheses About Tech in 2014 Jan 8, 2014 Ta-Nehisi Coates What It Means to Be a Public Intellectual Jan 8, 2014 Matthew O'Brien Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Jan 8, 2014 Julie Beck Study: Fight Performance Anxiety by Getting Excited Jan 8, 2014 Andrew Cohen 'The Most Expensive Sheriff in America' Is Getting More Expensive Jan 8, 2014 James Fallows Ice Cream, Chocolate, Coffee, and Beer Jan 7, 2014 Emma Green How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl Jan 7, 2014 Derek Thompson The War on Poverty Turns 50: Why Aren't We Winning? Jan 6, 2014 Molly Ball The Agony of Frank Luntz Jan 6, 2014 Matt Schiavenza Legalizing Marijuana Does Not Mean the U.S. Would Lose Ground to China Jan 5, 2014 Sam Price-Waldman Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone Jan 3, 2014 Steve Clemons China's Latest Food Scandal: Fox-Tainted Donkey Meat Jan 2, 2014 Garance Franke-Ruta 3 Big Obamacare Numbers to Start Off the New Year Dec 31, 2013 Kasia Cieplak-Mayr von Baldegg The Most Powerful Images of 2013 Dec 28, 2013 Katherine Wells The Other Darwin Dec 28, 2013 Down More in Business Why Aren't We Winning The War on Poverty? Derek Thompson The Dark Side of Globalization: Why Seattle's 1999 Protesters Were Right Noah Smith Here's Exactly How Much the Government Would Have to Spend to Make Public College Tuition-Free Jordan Weissmann In Focus A Trip to the Farne Islands Most Popular 1 What It Means to Be a Public Intellectual 2 School Wasn't Canceled for Bad Weather in 1882 3 50 Iranians, One Question: 'If You Could Do Anything You Wanted, What Would You Do?' 4 The Female Face of Poverty 5 How Netflix Reverse Engineered Hollywood 6 The Poverty Line Was Designed Assuming Every Family Had a Housewife Who Was a 'Skillful Cook 7 What You Get When 30 People Draw a World Map From Memory 8 Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? 9 Rumors of Chris Christie's Demise Have Been Greatly Exaggerated 10 The Wedding That a U.S. Drone Strike Turned Into a Funeral Just In What the 150,000 Attendees of CES Are Doing Right Now Megan Garber Medicare Part D's Hopeful Lessons for Obamacare Norm Ornstein Concern About the Soul’s Purity Is Not Just for the Religious Matthew Hutson ATLANTIC MEDIA The Wire Five Best Thursday Columns Justin Bieber Borrowed Chris Brown's RV To Take Selena Gomez Camping How Today's Front Pages Handled Chris Christie's 'Bridgeghazi' Scandal More from The Wire Atlantic Cities Why We Should Think Twice Before Asking Police to Deal With the Mentally Ill Weird 'Ice Boulders' Wash Up on Lake Michigan Philadelphia's Bedbug Infestations Are Skyrocketing by 70 Percent a Year More from Atlantic Cities Quartz Chlamydia is breaking records, but it’s not the STD you should be worried about Silicon Valley startups are devouring less of the world’s venture capital funding… sort of The former mouthpiece of apartheid is now one of the world’s most successful tech investors More from Quartz National Journal Christie Needs to Go "Super Sister Souljah" on Bridge Scandal Explosions Coming Over Mountaintop-Mining Rule Former White House Environmental Aide Helping Companies Cope With Climate More from National Journal Longreads How One Magazine Shaped Investigative Journalism in America How to Cure Reader’s Block Stories About Unlikeable People More from Longreads Follow The Atlantic App store Facebook Twitter Linkedin Google Plus Tumblr RSS E-Newsletters Today's Top Stories This Week This Month New at In Focus Atlantic Cities 5 Best Columns Today's News Information FAQ Subscribe Help Masthead Store Emporium Jobs Privacy Site Map Terms and Conditions Advertise Advertising Guidelines Press Contact Us Special Reports Atlantic Scene Ebook Events Atlantic Media Subscribe Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price STATE AK AL AR AZ CA CO CT DC DE FL GA HI IA ID IL IN KS KY LA MA MD ME MI MN MO MS MT NC ND NE NH NJ NM NV NY OH OK OR PA RI SC SD TN TX UT VA VT WA WI WV WY YT Next ► Fraud alert regarding The Atlantic Copyright © 2014 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. CDN powered by Edgecast Networks. Insights powered by Parsely . Powered by the Parse.ly Publisher Platform (P3). 
