Apple Help - Online Exclusives  - Apple Store  (U.S.)
 Apple Store Mac iPod iPhone iPad iTunes Support Search Store Apple Store Chat Now 1-800-MY-APPLE Have questions? Just ask. Speak to an Apple Specialist over the phone 24/7. Account Cart Loading Check Order Status Find out estimated delivery dates for your orders. Return Items Return your items and get a refund. Cancel Items Cancel orders recently placed. View Account Manage account settings, payments and order info. Get Help Learn about placing, tracking, managing your orders and more. Your Cart There are no items in your Cart. View Cart Saved Items Saved Carts Check Out Now Shop Mac Shop iPad Shop iPhone Shop iPod Online Store Exclusives Shopping the Apple Online Store lets you take advantage of exclusive features such as iPod engraving, Mac customization, and Certified Refurbished Products. Choose a topic: Engrave Your iPod or iPad Customize Your Mac Buy a Certified Refurbished Product Engrave Your iPod or iPad Want to make your new iPod or iPad your own? You can engrave any model of new iPad, iPod shuffle, iPod nano, iPod classic, and iPod touch. Personalized laser engraving is only available on the Apple Online Store. Engraving is not offered on refurbished products. After you select your iPod or iPad from the Apple Online Store, you will be offered the option to enter up to one line of text for iPod shuffle and iPod nano, and up to two lines of text for iPod classic, iPod touch, and iPad. As you type, you’ll see an image on the left side of the page that represents what your text will look like. The text will be engraved near the top, on the back of the product, just like it appears in the image. Please make sure that everything is spelled correctly. You may wish to review our Sales and Refunds Policy. You may be able to make changes to the engraved text or cancel your item if online Order Status indicates that your iPod has "Not yet shipped." See the Viewing & Changing Orders section of online Help for details or go directly to online Order Status. Return to top Customize Your Mac Because everyone’s needs are different, the Apple Online Store makes it easy to build the Mac that’s right for you. Models that can be customized MacBook Air MacBook Pro Mac mini (hardware only) iMac Mac Pro Please note, we are unable to customize refurbished Macs. Hardware Options You have several options to build the system that is right for you. After you choose a model with the processor speed and optical drive you want, you can configure, for example: Processor Memory Graphics card Hard drive Keyboard and Mouse sets Why stop there? You can easily add any of these: Apple Display AppleCare Protection Plan MagSafe Airline Adapter (for portable computers only) Software Options With the purchase of a qualifying Mac, you can choose to pre-install Pages, Keynote, and Numbers. When you receive your Mac, you can find your pre-installed software on the second page of your Launchpad, and in your Applications folder. Please note, a CD or DVD for your pre-installed software is not included. For support with your pre-installed Apple apps, visit apple.com/support/mac/app-store. How to Customize 1. Choose whether you’d like a portable or desktop computer. 2. Select the model you want. 3. On the "Configure your Mac" page, select the radio button next to the configuration option(s) you’d like. 4. When you are finished building your Mac, click the "Add to Cart" button. The dollar amount that will be added (or subtracted) from your Subtotal is clearly listed next to each option. The Subtotal, ‘Ships’ timeframe, and Specifications summary at the top right of the screen will update as you choose options. You can also call our specialists at 1-800-MY-APPLE and we’ll be glad to help you build the Mac that’s right for you. Return to top Buy a Certified Refurbished Product The Apple Online Store is the exclusive provider of Apple Certified Refurbished products and Clearance Items. Refurbished Products Apple Certified Refurbished Products are pre-owned Apple products that undergo a rigorous refurbishment process prior to being offered for sale. We back these products with our standard one-year limited warranty. For extended coverage, you have the option of purchasing the AppleCare Protection Plan with any Apple Certified Refurbished Mac, iPod or iPad. Refurbishment Process Each Apple Certified Refurbished Product: is fully tested (including full burn-in testing) is refurbished with replacement parts for any defective modules identified in testing is thoroughly cleaned and inspected is repackaged (including appropriate manuals, cables, new boxes, etc.) includes the operating software originally shipped with the unit and the custom software offered with that system is given a new refurbished part number and serial number is placed into a final QA inspection prior to being added to sellable refurbished stock Refurbishment procedures follow the same basic technical guidelines as Apple's Finished Goods testing procedures. Clearance Items Clearance Items are new, unopened products from Apple and other manufacturers offered with special pricing. Policies for Refurbished and Clearance Items: Sales To End-Users Only The Apple Online Store sells and ships refurbished products to end-user customers only. Order Assistance For products and pricing, Apple Store specialists are available 7 days a week at 1-800-MY-APPLE from 4:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. Pacific time. For order status or assistance with an order you have placed, contact Apple Store Customer Service at 1-800-676-2775, Monday - Friday from 5:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., or Saturday - Sunday from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Pacific time. Corporate Gifting and Rewards For orders that exceed nine units, please contact our Corporate Gifting and Rewards Team at 1-877-275-IPOD. Return & Refunds Policy Apple’s standard Sales and Refunds Policy applies to all refurbished and clearance items. If you are not satisfied with your purchase, please call Apple Store Customer Service at 1-800-676-2775 to request a return within 14 calendar days of your receipt of the item. Defective Items If you discover what you believe is a product defect for an Apple-branded product, please contact an Apple advisor at 1-800-APL-CARE (1-800-275-2273). If you discover what you believe is a product defect for any third-party product, please contact the manufacturer directly for information regarding the manufacturer's warranty. No Engraving or Gift Wrapping The Apple Online Store does not currently offer engraving or gift wrapping on refurbished products. Return to top Help Topics Contact Us Your Account Returns & Refunds Viewing & Changing Orders Payment & Pricing Shipping & Pickup iPhone Apple Software Apple Recycling Program Online Store Exclusives Gifting Shopping Experience Questions & Answers Policies Apple Print Products Quick Links Product Support Aperture Support iPhoto Support iTunes Support iCloud Support QuickTime Support Apple Apple Store Help Online Store Exclusives Apple Store Shop Mac Shop iPad Shop iPhone Shop iPod More Stores Refurbished & Clearance Education Business Government Apple Store App iTunes Store App Store iBooks Store Customer Help Order Status Payment & Pricing Shipping & Pickup Returns & Refunds Contact Us Help Store Services Customize Your Mac Free Engraving Financing Reuse & Recycling Gift Cards Personal Pickup Apple Retail Store Find a Store Complete Store List Shop Your Way Workshops and Learning Genius Bar Leave feedback Have an opinion on this page? Let's hear it. When you're done, just click Submit. Need help? Contact Us Please rate: Cancel Submit Apple Store (U.S.) Site Map Security Policy Select a Country Copyright © 2013 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sales and Refunds You can also order from The Apple Store by calling 1-800-MY-APPLE. 
