iPhone recycling program - Get an Apple Gift Card for your old iPhone  - Apple Store  (U.S.)
 Apple Store Mac iPod iPhone iPad iTunes Support Search Store Shop iPhone Chat Now 1-800-MY-APPLE Have questions? Just ask. Speak to an Apple Specialist over the phone 24/7. Account Cart Loading Check Order Status Find out estimated delivery dates for your orders. Return Items Return your items and get a refund. Cancel Items Cancel orders recently placed. View Account Manage account settings, payments and order info. Get Help Learn about placing, tracking, managing your orders and more. Your Cart There are no items in your Cart. View Cart Saved Items Saved Carts Check Out Now iPhone 5s iPhone 5c iPhone 4s Compare iPhone Models iPhone Accessories Community Q&A iPhone for Education iPhone for Business Your iPhone brought you joy. Now it can bring you up to $400. With the iPhone Reuse and Recycling Program you can get an Apple Store Gift Card for your iPhone.* Use it towards a new iPhone‚ iPad‚ Mac, or accessory. To get a no-obligation quote, guaranteed for 30 days, just follow these three simple steps. How it works: Answer a few questions about your iPhone and get an immediate offer that is guaranteed for 30 days. Send your iPhone to our recycling partner, PowerOn. Shipping is free. Once your iPhone is evaluated you'll receive an Apple Store Gift Card* Get started In addition to our iPhone Reuse and Recycling program, you may even get an Apple Store Gift Card for your used Mac, iPad, or PC with the Reuse and Recycling Program. If you are looking to recycle your iPod or mobile phone responsibly, simply use our iPod and Mobile Phone Recycling Program. * More specific details are available at PowerOn. PowerOn is an approved Apple partner for the trade-in and recycling of certain Apple products. Restrictions and limitations may apply. Payments are based upon the received iPhone matching the description you provided when your estimate was made. Apple Apple Store Shop iPhone Reuse and Recycling Program Apple Store Shop Mac Shop iPad Shop iPhone Shop iPod More Stores Refurbished & Clearance Education Business Government Apple Store App iTunes Store App Store iBooks Store Customer Help Order Status Payment & Pricing Shipping & Pickup Returns & Refunds Contact Us Help Store Services Customize Your Mac Free Engraving Financing Reuse & Recycling Gift Cards Personal Pickup Apple Retail Store Find a Store Complete Store List Shop Your Way Workshops and Learning Genius Bar Leave feedback Have an opinion on this page? Let's hear it. When you're done, just click Submit. Need help? Contact Us Please rate: Cancel Submit Apple Store (U.S.) Site Map Security Policy Select a Country Copyright © 2013 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sales and Refunds You can also order from The Apple Store by calling 1-800-MY-APPLE. 
