'Smart Homes' Could Be Vulnerable to Hacking | Video - ABC News
 Now Chris Christie • Pound A Day Diet • Teen Stops Suicide Bomber • Lena Dunham • Target Data Breach • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live 'Smart Homes' Could Be Vulnerable to Hacking Security experts have growing concerns about homes wired so everything can be controlled remotely. 08/02/2013 Related Links: Watch: Smart Homes are Convienient But May be Vulnerable to Hack - Ins Watch: Duke's Green Dorm Share: Transcript for 'Smart Homes' Could Be Vulnerable to Hacking Josh, now to the high-tech way criminals are breaking into homes by hacking so-called smarte smarthomes. And neal karlinsky got an inside look how it's done and what all of us should know. Reporter:... See More Josh, now to the high-tech way criminals are breaking into homes by hacking so-called smarte smarthomes. And neal karlinsky got an inside look how it's done and what all of us should know. Reporter: At first, you might think thomas' house has a ghost playing with the lights. My dining room table just turned on. Reporter: It's not haunted. It's being hacked. Hadley has a so-called smarthome. Lights, tv, you name it. Wired in so he can control everything remotely. That's also left the door open to hackers. In this case, an enterprising reporter from "forbes" named cashmere hill, who found hadley's network wide-open. I had to type a simple phrase into a search engine. It gave me a list of houses using this product. Reporter: But put the two of them together. Hill in san francisco. Hadley in oregon, to demonstrate a growing concern for security experts, who worry the home break-in is evolving into the home hack-in. Anything happened? The kitchen lights turned off. It confirmed there was a way into my house that I hadn't been aware of. Reporter: So-called smarthomes are growing $1.5 billion market. Homes that include lights, thermostats, even baby monitors and cameras. All controlled by smartphones. All potentially vulnerable, according to security consultants. Is this easy to do? Yeah. I doesn't take a lot of specialized knowledge. That's I think the scariest thing. Reporter: Security experts say a surprising number of people make the same mistake. Either no password, or the factory default password. And they say a firewall is a must-have, as well. Easy fixes that too many ignore, until they're reminded the hard way. Neal karlinsky, abc news, seattle. This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate. Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 9:00 AM ET GMA Live remind me 9:15 AM ET News Pop remind me 9:30 AM ET Opening Bell remind me 10:00 AM ET News Pop remind me 10:30 AM ET Headlines & Weather remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS sections: Most Popular U.S. World Politics Health Entertainment Tech Travel Money Brian Ross Investigates The Assets: Meet the Real People Digital Reports Digital Originals Extreme Video ABC News Audio Home > Video > Most Popular Passenger Films as Plane Crashes Into Ocean Passenger Films as Plane Crashes Into Ocean Eight of the 9 people on board survived the small plane crash off the coast of Hawaii in December. Hawaii Plane Crash Blamed on Engine Failure Hawaii Plane Crash Blamed on Engine Failure Hawaii Health Director Loretta Fuddy was the only passenger who died in the crash. Utah Family Survives Plane Crash: Caught On Tape Utah Family Survives Plane Crash: Caught On Tape Jonathan Fielding was treating his wife, Kara, to her first flight ever on her birthday. 'Atomic Wedgie' Kills Oklahoma Man, Police Say 'Atomic Wedgie' Kills Oklahoma Man, Police Say Brad Davis is accused of suffocating his stepfather with the 58-year-old man's own underwear. Christie Couldn't Pick Fort Lee Mayor 'Out of a Lineup' Christie Couldn't Pick Fort Lee Mayor 'Out of a Lineup' New Jersey governor says he never asked to meet Mark Sokolich during his re-election campaign. Survivor: Hawaii Plane Crash 'Like Instant Brakes' Survivor: Hawaii Plane Crash 'Like Instant Brakes' All but one of nine passengers on a small plane survived the crash. Small Plane Crashes in Michigan Small Plane Crashes in Michigan Cockpit video captured the moment the aircraft nose dived into a cornfield. Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis The 29-year-old woman who had no known medical conditions had not gotten a flu shot. Chris Christie's Top Voice-Raising Moments Chris Christie's Top Voice-Raising Moments The New Jersey governor has proven time and again that he's no wallflower. Sperm Switch: Biological Dad Is Convicted Felon Sperm Switch: Biological Dad Is Convicted Felon Genetic testing links adult daughter to a convicted kidnapper who used to work at a Utah fertility clinic. Teenager Mistaken for Intruder Fatally Shot by Neighbor Teenager Mistaken for Intruder Fatally Shot by Neighbor Virginia police say high school student Caleb A. Gordley entered the house through a window. Friend Charged in Teen Actress' Killing Friend Charged in Teen Actress' Killing Police say Daniel Bartelt, 19, strangled Jessie Blodgett. Chris Christie Is Big on 'Responsibility' Chris Christie Is Big on 'Responsibility' The New Jersey governor repeatedly takes responsibility for his staffers' actions. Plane Almost Hits Car on Runway Plane Almost Hits Car on Runway Unauthorized black Jeep on runway almost struck by an airplane. Anne Hathaway Injured in Near-Drowning Incident Anne Hathaway Injured in Near-Drowning Incident The actress was swept out to sea while swimming in Hawaii. 1 of 2 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
