Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis | Video - ABC News
 Now Texting Shooting • Octomom Fraud • Kanye West • Evan Ross and Ashlee Simpson • Nest • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis The 29-year-old woman who had no known medical conditions had not gotten a flu shot. 01/08/2014 RELATED TOPICS: Infectious Diseases • Cold and Flu • Influenza • U.S. Share: Transcript for Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis A mother of three in Texas is dead just five days after she was diagnosed with the flu. 29 year old Elise Jones was told she have the flu and then a few days later she had trouble breathing and went... See More A mother of three in Texas is dead just five days after she was diagnosed with the flu. 29 year old Elise Jones was told she have the flu and then a few days later she had trouble breathing and went to the hospital. A few hours later she was dead police husband -- Jones of the three children are devastated. Well you know youth. -- -- So when we go go -- mommy. -- I can explain to -- from him Chama is two weeks. -- doctors -- Jones had no underlying medical condition and was apparently healthy besides the flu. The Centers for Disease Control says flu activity is on the rise in the United States this week with twenty states reporting high numbers of patients and -- -- encourage people. To get flu shots. This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate. Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 9:00 AM ET GMA Live remind me 9:15 AM ET News Pop remind me 9:30 AM ET Opening Bell remind me 10:00 AM ET News Pop remind me 10:30 AM ET Headlines & Weather remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS sections: Most Popular U.S. World Politics Health Entertainment Tech Travel Money Brian Ross Investigates The Assets: Meet the Real People Digital Reports Digital Originals Extreme Video ABC News Audio Home > Video > Most Popular Shots Fired at a Middle School in the Southwest Shots Fired at a Middle School in the Southwest Suspect in custody after shooting at Berrendo Middle School in Roswell, N.M. Moviegoer Shot to Death After Texting Argument Moviegoer Shot to Death After Texting Argument A retired police captain allegedly shot and killed a man in a Florida theater. Dispute in Movie Theater Ends in Fatal Shooting Dispute in Movie Theater Ends in Fatal Shooting Florida authorities arrest man suspected in shooting a couple over cell phone use. Shots Fired at New Mexico Middle School Shots Fired at New Mexico Middle School A suspect is in custody after opening fire at Berrendo Middle School in Roswell. Brawl Erupts Outside Florida Movie Theater Brawl Erupts Outside Florida Movie Theater Police say 600-person melee in parking lot started after a group tried to storm the theater without tickets. Student Storms Arapahoe High School With Shotgun Looking for Teacher Student Storms Arapahoe High School With Shotgun Looking for Teacher Colorado high school senior Karl Pierson targeted school librarian in recent school shooting. James Holmes Trial Could Last Months James Holmes Trial Could Last Months Colorado judge says jury selection could take three months and the trial could last five months. Roswell, N.M., Shooting: 2 Students in Critical Condition Roswell, N.M., Shooting: 2 Students in Critical Condition A middle school student opened fire in Berrendo Middle School's gym before classes started. Teacher Killed in Nevada School Shooting Teacher Killed in Nevada School Shooting New details emerge about the victims and gunman in a middle school shooting. Texting Allegedly Triggers Movie Theater Shooting by Retired Police Captain Texting Allegedly Triggers Movie Theater Shooting by Retired Police Captain Chad Oulson was on a date with his wife, and wanted to send a text message to their young daughter. 'American Hustle,' Golden Globe Hosts Rule the Night 'American Hustle,' Golden Globe Hosts Rule the Night Jennifer Lawrence and Amy Adams walked away with wins for their performances. Arapahoe High School Shooting, 2 Possible Victims Arapahoe High School Shooting, 2 Possible Victims Students reportedly heard gunshots inside Arapahoe High School in Centennial. Justin Bieber's Alleged Egging Prompts Search Warrant Justin Bieber's Alleged Egging Prompts Search Warrant California police are searching the singer's home after his neighbor accused him of throwing an egg. Madeleine McCann Case: 3 Alleged Burglars to Be Interviewed Madeleine McCann Case: 3 Alleged Burglars to Be Interviewed Detectives reportedly asked Portuguese authorities to find three suspects in girl's disappearance. Mitt Romney Kicks It 'Gangnam Style' Mitt Romney Kicks It 'Gangnam Style' The former presidential nominee kicked up his heels at a Mormon church event in Maryland. 1 of 2 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
