IDEO's Steve Bishop on the Future of Sustainable Design Thinking - Rachel Signer - The Atlantic
     Continue to the TheAtlantic.com Advertisement The Atlantic Subscribe Now Follow Us Politics Top Stories Why Bridgegate Is So Dangerous to Christie The Republicans' Inside-Out Approach to Poverty Second-Class Citizens: How D.C. and Puerto Rico Lose How NSA Apologists Exploit State Secrets Why Are the Poor and Minorities Less Likely to Vote? A Defense of Chris Christie, Courtesy of the NSA Business Top Stories If You Really Care About Ending Poverty, Stop Talking About Inequality Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Why America's Doctor Shortage Might Mean Trouble for Obamacare No, the 'College Bubble' Isn't Popping The U.S. Economy Does Not Value Caregivers The Poverty Line Was Designed Assuming Every Family Had a Housewife Who Was a 'Skillful Cook' Tech Top Stories With Great Computing Power Comes Great Surveillance The Time I Got Stranded in Antarctica AMA: How a Weird Internet Thing Became a Mainstream Delight Oh, Deer: NASA Rocket Gets Photobombed by Hungry Animals R Is for Robot: A Child's Guide to the Consumer Electronics Show Meet 'Mr. Marinator,' the World's Most Mesmerizing Gadget Entertainment Top Stories Accordions: So Hot Right Now Marian Bantjes, the Michelangelo of Decorative Lettering Does Prince Charming Need to Be Reinvented? How Masterpiece Stays Timeless Great News: Now Anyone Can Write and Publish a Sherlock Holmes Story How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl Health Top Stories A Lesser-Known Dementia That Steals Personality The Rise and Fall—and Rise—of Facial Hair Suicide and the 'Impure' Soul Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain The U.S. Economy Does Not Value Caregivers Honest 11-Month-Old's Daycare Assessment Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less Education Top Stories What's Ahead for Education in 2014 How to Discipline Students Without Turning School Into a Prison Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain When Computers Are Co-Teachers Honest 11-Month-Old's Daycare Assessment School Wasn't Canceled for Bad Weather in 1882 Sexes Top Stories The U.S. Economy Does Not Value Caregivers How People in Muslim Countries Think Women Should Dress The Female Face of Poverty The Rise and Fall—and Rise—of Facial Hair The Poverty Line Was Designed Assuming Every Family Had a Housewife Who Was a 'Skillful Cook' Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? National Top Stories 'The Most Expensive Sheriff in America' Is Getting More Expensive When a Boy You Know Goes Missing Executed Against the Jury's Judgment Robert Pastor Ice Cream, Chocolate, Coffee, and Beer Notre Dame’s Moral Dilemma Over Birth Control Special Report: A User's Guide to 2014 Global Top Stories How People in Muslim Countries Think Women Should Dress Iceland's Newest Beer Ingredient: Whale A Report Card for Humanity: 1900-2050 Gates, Obama, and Ducking Difficult Choices in the Middle East The Wedding That a U.S. Drone Strike Turned Into a Funeral 50 Iranians, One Question: 'If You Could Do Anything You Wanted, What Would You Do?' China Top Stories Legalizing Marijuana Does Not Mean the U.S. Would Lose Ground to China Meet the Chinese Tycoon Who Wants to Buy The New York Times Why China's Global Supremacy Is Not Inevitable China's Eerie Faux-European Ghost Towns A Jittery China Faces 2014 Xi Jinping Eats Some Dumplings at a Restaurant Video Top Stories Sierra Leone's Fight for Gender Equality Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone 'The Mean Dean Drumming Machine' The Life of a Los Angeles Homicide Detective Zen and the Art of Woodworking Inside a Workshop for Custom-Built Motorcycles Magazine In This Month's Issue Surviving Anxiety Daddy Track: The Case for Paternity Leave Jesse Willms, the Dark Lord of the Internet The Elmore Leonard Paradox A Brief History of the Mile High Club Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Editions Subscribe Newsletters Books Apps Longreads In Focus Events Just In When Computers Are Co-Teachers Dementia That Strikes Young By Erika Hayasaki Suicide and the 'Impure' Soul By Matthew Hutson The Rise and Fall of Facial Hair By Olga Khazan Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less IDEO's Steve Bishop on the Future of Sustainable Design Thinking Rachel Signer Dec 9 2011, 9:02 AM ET Tweet More Email Print Steve Bishop is global lead of environmental impact at the design and business innovation firm IDEO. At IDEO, Bishop helps companies build brands, develop new products, and design new innovation processes inspired by principles of sustainability. Bishop came to his current position through what he calls a "circuitous path," and his passion for artful storytelling was key in leading him to this work. IDEO, which employs 550 people between its offices in New York, London, and San Francisco, provides a space where people like Bishop are valued for their multi-faceted skill set. Here, Bishop explains how these skill sets are assets in the multi-disciplinary practice of design thinking. What led you to work at IDEO? I've been here for seven years, and like a lot of people, I had a circuitous path to IDEO. I was originally trained in film and media in undergrad, then moved to Los Angeles, where I did independent films for awhile. I came up to San Francisco for this little thing called the Internet. After some time, I realized I wanted to get out from behind the screen and into physical design, so I got a product design degree from Stanford, in the joint program between mechanical engineering and arts department, a predecessor to the d.school. How do your diverse past experiences influence the way you practice design? I craft narratives for the things and services we're designing. My background helps me in storytelling, which is in many cases the most important part of getting ideas across. And without the right story, communicating value in the right way to potential customers and stakeholders, those ideas won't go anywhere. What is most challenging about working in sustainable design? Just the topic in general is a really heavy one. It's talked about in terms of gloom and doom. Many people approach it from a glass half-empty point-of-view, which is not inspiring and not fun. It's not an inspirational topic for a lot of people; it's "we've got to save ourselves." My job is meant to inspire people and show how sustainability is an opportunity. I try to come at it from an optimistic and intuitive point of view. There is something fun and interesting in sustainability -- that's what I try to emphasize to clients. Can you give some examples of how you've done that? In the past, our initial approach was to create a great offer, saying to potential clients, "Hey let's find these amazing opportunities in sustainability, and work on them together." We worked with the Department of Energy to make energy efficiency a more compelling and exciting thing to do; we've worked with utilities providers on similar programs; we've worked with Ford on a better, more efficient driving experience for their Hybrid Fusion. But those projects were only coming along every so often, and we weren't getting enough practice and experience to have a critical mass to scale our efforts. So how did the IDEO team get around that challenge? A lot of people here are passionate about sustainability. But we kept hitting the same wall as our clients: Sustainability is a big, complex topic, and how are we really equipped to address something as huge as, say, climate change? But then we said, hey, we find this topic to be enriching to the quality of our work, and it helps us identify solutions and innovations. So rather than waiting for the client to bring us a great sustainability design brief, we decided we would play the role of protagonist and simply build a sustainability dimension into our craft. In our human-centered design work, we did the same thing: We said we find inspiration in this and we're going to use it regardless of whether our clients request it. How does IDEO take a unique approach to design? There's a lot of people here who have had diverse, circuitous backgrounds, in philosophy, anthropology, design, arts, engineering, storytelling: people from different walks of life. But our common approach to problem-solving brings us together -- that's design thinking. It's different from analytical thinking, where you break ideas down into discrete components, solve them individually, and bring it all back together for a solution. We do that, and it's valuable; we don't discount it. But in design thinking, instead of breaking down ideas, we're building ideas up. We integrate ideas to get to a new way of accomplishing something, performing a task, creating a service. It's very optimistic in nature; it's integrative. Everyone's a designer. Trying to build a better planet. Read more from this  special report. What about the field of sustainable design do you think is most exciting right now? What makes me excited about design thinking is that it is the great hope for this topic of sustainability. There's a need for making this topic -- sustainability -- compelling to people in ways other than adhering to policies, avoiding regulatory encounters. This is an opportunity for growth in business, and an opportunity for positive impact. Ideas flow in a generative nature, building on one another. You can see these qualities in designers and in their ethos. Sustainability for us is something that helps us innovate. It helps us get to the demand side -- what people desire and how can we respond to those needs -- rather than it becoming a conversation about efficiency, supply chain optimization, or regulation. How might we find new markets, get new users, and be more sustainable all at once? What's something that frustrates you about the field? When we see frustrations we ask right away, what are the opportunities on the other side of that. So there's rarely frustration -- it's just another design opportunity. A lot of the barriers we thought we needed to go after are not actually the ones we need to go after -- there's a lot of assumptions that we were making, about clients for example, that they should be coming to us with certain questions or sustainability briefs -- but in fact we can take that upon ourselves and bring it to them. What do you see as the future of sustainable design? I believe sustainability will be part of what we define as "good design." And we're working toward that future. For example, a lot of our project teams were feeling ill-equipped to address this topic confidently. So we took that to heart and put in some mechanisms to learn about the topic as it relates to specific industries. So we have this thing called project vacation. We set aside a certain amount of time, a day, perhaps, to take a vacation from a design brief that a client has proposed to us, and think about what we would do if we had all the resources and all the time in the world to address sustainability in this project. We let ourselves think freely. We don't charge it to our client. We take a day of our own time and just think, and it's really helpful. And we always find something from that time that we can bring back to the project. And it helps the team think about sustainability with new knowledge, without sacrificing the time and budget needed to address the client's needs properly. And how could your project vacation take design into the future? In the future, this could just be a part of good design. Good design considers environmental impact. And that's where design is going. We've seen this happen with human-centered design. You could consider sustainable design an extension of human-centered design. In a project on disposable injection devices, for example, those are typically given a free pass in terms of environmental impact because they do so much good for people's lives. Yet when we go out and talk to people, during human factors research, to gain insight about how injection devices are used, sometimes the devices, which are used once and thrown out, are very packaging-heavy. And that leaves people not feeling great about the use. In order to take care of their own health, patients felt they were negatively impacting the health of everyone else by putting waste out in the world -- into the natural resources we depend upon. Project vacation allows us to design around this tension and get to a definition of good design that considers the physical and emotional well-being of all people. Jump to comments Tweet Email Print Presented by Rachel Signer is a freelance journalist based in Brooklyn. Her website is rachelsigner.com. All Posts Try 2 Free Issues! Go Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Edition Get Today's Top Stories in Your Inbox (preview) Email Address Dementia That Strikes Young and Transforms Personalities Erika Hayasaki Jan 9, 2014 When a Boy You Know Goes Missing Alex Edelman Jan 9, 2014 With Great Computing Power Comes Great Surveillance Bill Davidow Jan 9, 2014 The Michelangelo of Decorative Lettering Steven Heller Jan 9, 2014 Video More Video The Life of a Los Angeles Homicide Detective Tweet The Rise and Fall of Facial Hair Reading Fiction Changes Your Brain R is for Robot: A Children's Guide to the Consumer Electronics Show Why Bridgegate Is So Dangerous to Chris Christie's Reputation ‹ › Elsewhere on the web Sponsored Links Join the Discussion After you comment, click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register. blog comments powered by Disqus Close Video Governor Christie's Political Traffic Jam Highlights from late-night comedy Writers Up Megan Garber Oh, Deer: NASA Rocket Gets Photobombed by Hungry Animals 7:30 AM ET Conor Friedersdorf How NSA Apologists Exploit State Secrets 7:00 AM ET James Fallows Robert Pastor Jan 9, 2014 Jordan Weissmann No, the 'College Bubble' Isn't Popping Jan 9, 2014 David A. Graham Why Bridgegate Is So Dangerous to Chris Christie's Reputation Jan 9, 2014 Alexis C. Madrigal First as Fake, Then As Reality: When the Polar Vortex Froze Niagara Falls Jan 9, 2014 Olga Khazan The Rise and Fall—and Rise—of Facial Hair Jan 9, 2014 Ta-Nehisi Coates Addendum to the Great Public-Intellectual Debate Jan 9, 2014 Eleanor Barkhorn What's Ahead for Education in 2014 Jan 9, 2014 James Hamblin Honest 11-Month-Old's Daycare Assessment Jan 8, 2014 Robinson Meyer Notice That Flicker? Europe's Lights Are Out-of-Tune With Your Phone Jan 8, 2014 Rebecca J. Rosen 'No One Should Die Because They Cannot Afford Healthcare': One Meme's Story Jan 8, 2014 Matthew O'Brien Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Jan 8, 2014 Julie Beck Study: Fight Performance Anxiety by Getting Excited Jan 8, 2014 Andrew Cohen 'The Most Expensive Sheriff in America' Is Getting More Expensive Jan 8, 2014 Emma Green How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl Jan 7, 2014 Derek Thompson The War on Poverty Turns 50: Why Aren't We Winning? Jan 6, 2014 Molly Ball The Agony of Frank Luntz Jan 6, 2014 Matt Schiavenza Legalizing Marijuana Does Not Mean the U.S. Would Lose Ground to China Jan 5, 2014 Sam Price-Waldman Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone Jan 3, 2014 Steve Clemons China's Latest Food Scandal: Fox-Tainted Donkey Meat Jan 2, 2014 Kasia Cieplak-Mayr von Baldegg The Most Powerful Images of 2013 Dec 28, 2013 Katherine Wells The Other Darwin Dec 28, 2013 Ashley Fetters The Exhausting Emotional Violence of August: Osage County Dec 25, 2013 Down More in Business If You Really Care About Ending Poverty, Stop Talking About Inequality W. Bradford Wilcox Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Matthew O'Brien Why America's Doctor Shortage Might Mean Trouble for Obamacare Matthew O'Brien In Focus The National Ignition Facility Most Popular 1 Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain 2 How People in Muslim Countries Think Women Should Dress 3 The Rise and Fall—and Rise—of Facial Hair 4 A Lesser-Known Dementia That Steals Personality 5 A Defense of Chris Christie, Courtesy of the NSA 6 How Netflix Reverse Engineered Hollywood 7 No, the 'College Bubble' Isn't Popping 8 This Is Your Brain on Gluten 9 Why Bridgegate Is So Dangerous to Chris Christie's Reputation 10 First as Fake, Then As Reality: When the Polar Vortex Froze Niagara Falls Just In When Computers Are Co-Teachers Margaret Ramirez Oh, Deer: NASA Rocket Gets Photobombed by Hungry Animals Megan Garber How NSA Apologists Exploit State Secrets Conor Friedersdorf ATLANTIC MEDIA The Wire Bilateral Security Talks with Afghanistan Are Not Going So Great Indian Diplomat Who Damaged U.S.-India Relations Asked to Leave the Country The FBI Is Keeping Tabs on Americans Who Went to Syria More from The Wire Atlantic Cities Did San Francisco's Google Bus Deal Just Set a Price for Curb Space? The Life of a Los Angeles Homicide Detective One Reason the Poor Have So Little Political Clout More from Atlantic Cities Quartz The resume is not dead—here’s three ways to make yours better than any social media profile The US employment report is due at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists expect 190,000 jobs were added in December. Now that Devyani Khobragade is leaving the US, is this the end of US-India tensions? More from Quartz National Journal Don’t Think the Feds Will Rein In the NSA? Maybe the States Can Help Unemployment Deal Falls Flat, Putting Senate Back in Irons Stabenow Considering Rare Hold—for Her—on Energy Nominee More from National Journal Longreads How One Magazine Shaped Investigative Journalism in America How to Cure Reader’s Block Stories About Unlikeable People More from Longreads Follow The Atlantic App store Facebook Twitter Linkedin Google Plus Tumblr RSS E-Newsletters Today's Top Stories This Week This Month New at In Focus Atlantic Cities 5 Best Columns Today's News Information FAQ Subscribe Help Masthead Store Emporium Jobs Privacy Site Map Terms and Conditions Advertise Advertising Guidelines Press Contact Us Special Reports Atlantic Scene Ebook Events Atlantic Media Subscribe Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price STATE AK AL AR AZ CA CO CT DC DE FL GA HI IA ID IL IN KS KY LA MA MD ME MI MN MO MS MT NC ND NE NH NJ NM NV NY OH OK OR PA RI SC SD TN TX UT VA VT WA WI WV WY YT Next ► Fraud alert regarding The Atlantic Copyright © 2014 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. CDN powered by Edgecast Networks. Insights powered by Parsely . Powered by the Parse.ly Publisher Platform (P3). 
