President Obama's Speech: America's 'Basic Bargain' Is Broken—Now What? - Derek Thompson - The Atlantic
     Continue to the TheAtlantic.com Advertisement The Atlantic Subscribe Now Follow Us Politics Top Stories Why We're Marching Across N.H. to Honor Aaron Swartz Why Do the Poor and Minorities Vote Less? How the NSA Would Defend Chris Christie Why 'Let Them Smoke Pot' Is Not an Economic Strategy for Millennials How to Solve America's Democracy and Poverty Crisis The NeverEnding Sorry: Late-Night Comedy Roundup Business Top Stories If You Really Care About Ending Poverty, Stop Talking About Inequality Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Why America's Doctor Shortage Might Mean Trouble for Obamacare The Company That Botched Obamacare's Website Is Getting Replaced The 3 Weirdest Things About the Weirdest Jobs Report Ever The 2013 Employment Story: Yet Another Year of McJob Growth Tech Top Stories Court Rules That Yelp Must Unmask the Identities of Seven Anonymous Reviewers With Great Computing Power Comes Great Surveillance The Time I Got Stranded in Antarctica Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition The Elegance of Beowulf in 100 Tweets The Glorious Feeling of Fixing Something Yourself Entertainment Top Stories Lone Survivor: Every War Movie is a Pro-War Movie Marian Bantjes, the Michelangelo of Decorative Lettering Accordions: So Hot Right Now Cam Newton Could Become an NFL Legend—If He Wins Now Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? How Masterpiece Stays Timeless Health Top Stories Impact Factor and the Future of Medical Journals A Lesser-Known Dementia That Steals Personality Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less Education Top Stories There Are 3 States Where Not a Single Girl Took the AP Computer Science Exam How to Discipline Students Without Turning School Into a Prison 'You Have to Know History to Actually Teach It' When Computers Are Co-Teachers Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain What's Ahead for Education in 2014 Sexes Top Stories Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should The Rise and Fall—and Rise—of Facial Hair The U.S. Economy Does Not Value Caregivers How People in Muslim Countries Think Women Should Dress The Poverty Line Was Designed Assuming Every Family Had a Housewife Who Was a 'Skillful Cook' Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? National Top Stories The Black Students Who Wouldn't Leave the Lunch Counter The Appalling Story of South Carolina's Prisons Executed Against the Jury's Judgment Robert Pastor When a Boy You Know Goes Missing 'The Most Expensive Sheriff in America' Is Getting More Expensive Special Report: A User's Guide to 2014 Global Top Stories Retracing Mao Zedong’s Long March by Motorcycle Iceland's Newest Beer Ingredient: Whale Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries How People in Muslim Countries Think Women Should Dress Gates, Obama, and Ducking Difficult Choices in the Middle East The Wedding That a U.S. Drone Strike Turned Into a Funeral Video Top Stories Sierra Leone's Fight for Gender Equality Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone 'The Mean Dean Drumming Machine' The Life of a Los Angeles Homicide Detective Zen and the Art of Woodworking Inside a Workshop for Custom-Built Motorcycles Magazine In This Month's Issue Surviving Anxiety Daddy Track: The Case for Paternity Leave Jesse Willms, the Dark Lord of the Internet The Elmore Leonard Paradox A Brief History of the Mile High Club Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Editions Subscribe Newsletters Books Apps Longreads In Focus Events Just In Cam Newton Could Become an NFL Legend—If He Wins Now The Elegance of Beowulf in 100 Tweets By Alexis C. Madrigal The Appalling Story of South Carolina's Prisons By Andrew Cohen What Makes a Good History Teacher? By David Cutler Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less President Obama's Speech: America's 'Basic Bargain' Is Broken—Now What? Derek Thompson Dec 7 2011, 8:20 AM ET Tweet More Email Print A reader's guide to the president's Tuesday speech on the economy Reuters Combining the Occupy movement's rhetoric with a nod to American populism, President Obama's economic address Tuesday in Osawatomie, Kansas, reads like a history lesson, a campaign platform, and a policy primer all wrapped into one. Better than most of his addresses to date, this speech drew a bright line between the White House and Republicans, including the GOP presidential nominees, and aligned the administration with the broader interests of the Occupy Wall Street movement by identifying income inequality as the economy's chief moral failure. Consider this a reader's guide to the speech's biggest points, with analysis on how they stand up to facts, and where they fit in the landscape of the public debate. The Fundamental Issue: A Broken Bargain For most Americans, the basic bargain that made this country great has eroded.  Long before the recession hit, hard work stopped paying off for too many people.  Fewer and fewer of the folks who contributed to the success of our economy actually benefitted from that success. The erosion of a "basic bargain" is an apt frame for seeing the motivations behind the both Tea Party and Occupy movement. These sweeping protests did not come out of nowhere. Middle class tensions have rumbled for years before the recession, as globalization and technology reduced opportunities for the middle class (especially for middle class men) and health care costs stripped more from our compensation, leaving workers with less to take home to their families. Each side has its own boogeyman. The Tea Party (largely) blames Washington and Obama. The Occupy protesters (largely) blame the 1 percent and the financial sector. I happen to think it's more complicated, and that there are in fact too many culprits to blame for us to march against them all at the same time. But my opinion doesn't really matter insofar as we're identifying the origins of American rage. The concept of a broken bargain hits it on the head. Why the Economy Still Feels Broken Everyone else struggled with costs that were growing and paychecks that weren't - and too many families found themselves racking up more and more debt just to keep up. For many years, credit cards and home equity loans papered over the harsh realities of this new economy.  But in 2008, the house of cards collapsed. Another substantively correct section. Necessities like health care, college, housing, and energy did indeed get more expensive in the last decade and paychecks weren't keeping up. Household climbed above 120 percent of income. What Americans couldn't bring home from work, they borrowed. Credit made the 2000s feel better. The credit crunch has made the Obama years feel worse. What We're Debating Now: Who Pays First? Most immediately, we need to extend a payroll tax cut that's set to expire at the end of this month.  If we don't do that, 160 million Americans will see their taxes go up by an average of $1,000, and it would badly weaken our recovery. But in the long term, we have to rethink our tax system more fundamentally.  We have to ask ourselves:  Do we want to make the investments we need in things like education, and research, and high-tech manufacturing?  Or do we want to keep in place the tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans in our country?  Because we can't afford to do both.  That's not politics.  That's just math. "That's just math," is the president's new slogan for raising taxes on the wealthy. He's half right. In the long term, we have to raise taxes on more than the top two percent. Otherwise, sensible deficit reduction (in the rage of $4 trillion over ten years) will come down in draconian fashion on domestic investment and entitlements. That, too, is just math. The unspoken trouble with tax hikes -- and this is a really big issue! -- is that most plans to increase taxes would begin after the election, in 2013. If the president signs a millionaire tax hike, Republicans can promise rich donors they'll repeal it in the first week of the new administration. If Republicans block a tax hike for the wealthy, Democrats will use it to drum up populist support in 2012. So it's not just math. It's politics, too. The Long-Term Solution: Education and Innovation In this economy, a higher education is the surest route to the middle class.  The unemployment rate for Americans with a college degree or more is about half the national average.  Their income is twice as high as those who don't have a high school diploma.  We shouldn't be laying off good teachers right now - we should be hiring them. There's really no debate that innovation is the surest way to growth, or that an educated workforce will have better ideas, stronger companies, and higher income. The trillion-dollar question is how do we improve education and innovation? There are smart people on both sides of the issue. On the right, there's an argument to break away from teachers unions, pay fewer teachers higher salaries with fewer guaranteed benefits, throw open charter schools to create competition, reduce taxes to encourage start-up formation and pull back regulations. To the left, there's an argument to keep the unions, hire more teachers, raise taxes, increase research spending, and provide universal health care so that more wannabe entrepreneurs feel more secure about striking out on their own. And of course, millions of people agree with a blend of these ideas, and more (like immigration reform!). The bottom line is that announcing that you're pro-innovation is like saying you're pro-growth, or pro-children, or pro-bipeds. Like there's an alternative. The devil is in the details. The Regulation Question: Does Big Business Deserve a Break? But part of the deal was that we would not go back to business as usual.  That's why last year we put in place new rules of the road that refocus the financial sector on this core purpose:  getting capital to the entrepreneurs with the best ideas, and financing to millions of families who want to buy a home or send their kids to college.  We're not all the way there yet, and the banks are fighting us every inch of the way.  But already, some of these reforms are being implemented.  If you're a big bank or risky financial institution, you'll have to write out a "living will" that details exactly how you'll pay the bills if you fail, so that taxpayers are never again on the hook for Wall Street's mistakes.  There are also limits on the size of banks and new abilities for regulators to dismantle a firm that goes under.  The new law bans banks from making risky bets with their customers' deposits, and takes away big bonuses and paydays from failed CEOs, while giving shareholders a say on executive salaries. Much of the president's speech beat back criticism that his regulations are hurting growth. While some medium-sized companies have balked at the health care law, poll after poll demonstrates that, when it comes to firms not hiring, sales and domestic labor costs far outweigh concerns about complying with new regulations. Similarly, if you're angry about the lay-offs on Wall Street that might be related to the rules in Dodd-Frank (as some of you really are, and some of you really are not), anger toward the White House should be weighed by the memory of 2008, when deregulation and poor regulation allowed the financial system to collapse -- save for a $7 trillion bailout from the Federal Reserve. If regulation has a cost, so does its absence. Jump to comments Tweet Email Print Presented by Derek Thompson is a senior editor at The Atlantic, where he oversees the Business Channel. More Thompson has written for Slate, BusinessWeek, and the Daily Beast. He has also appeared as a guest on radio and television networks, including NPR, the BBC, CNBC, and MSNBC. All Posts RSS Follow @dkthomp Try 2 Free Issues! Go Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Edition Get Today's Top Stories in Your Inbox (preview) Email Address Retracing Mao Zedong’s Long March on a Motorcycyle Adam Century 12:27 PM ET How to Solve America's Democracy and Poverty Crisis Daniel Weeks 2:00 PM ET Computers Make Great Assistant Teachers Margaret Ramirez 7:49 AM ET Marching Across New Hampshire to Honor Aaron Swartz Lawrence Lessig 12:00 PM ET Video More Video The Life of a Los Angeles Homicide Detective Tweet What Prison Officials in South Carolina Did to Mentally Ill Inmates Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should The Joy of Fixing Something Yourself Stuck: Why Americans Aren't Moving Anymore ‹ › Elsewhere on the web Sponsored Links Join the Discussion After you comment, click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register. blog comments powered by Disqus Close Video The NeverEnding Sorry Highlights from late-night comedy Writers Up James Hamblin Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition 3:59 PM ET Eleanor Barkhorn There Are 3 States Where Not a Single Girl Took the AP Computer Science Exam 3:16 PM ET Andrew Cohen The Black Students Who Wouldn't Leave the Lunch Counter 2:54 PM ET Jordan Weissmann The Company That Botched Obamacare's Website Is Getting Replaced 2:46 PM ET Alexis C. Madrigal The Elegance of Beowulf in 100 Tweets 1:51 PM ET Derek Thompson The 3 Weirdest Things About the Weirdest Jobs Report Ever 1:17 PM ET Olga Khazan Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should 12:14 PM ET Julie Beck Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries 9:00 AM ET Rebecca J. Rosen Court Rules That Yelp Must Unmask the Identities of Seven Anonymous Reviewers 8:00 AM ET Megan Garber Oh, Deer: NASA Rocket Gets Photobombed by Hungry Animals 7:30 AM ET Conor Friedersdorf How NSA Apologists Exploit State Secrets 7:00 AM ET James Fallows Robert Pastor Jan 9, 2014 David A. Graham Why Bridgegate Is So Dangerous to Chris Christie's Reputation Jan 9, 2014 Ta-Nehisi Coates Addendum to the Great Public-Intellectual Debate Jan 9, 2014 Robinson Meyer Notice That Flicker? Europe's Lights Are Out-of-Tune With Your Phone Jan 8, 2014 Matthew O'Brien Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Jan 8, 2014 Emma Green How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl Jan 7, 2014 Molly Ball The Agony of Frank Luntz Jan 6, 2014 Matt Schiavenza Legalizing Marijuana Does Not Mean the U.S. Would Lose Ground to China Jan 5, 2014 Sam Price-Waldman Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone Jan 3, 2014 Steve Clemons China's Latest Food Scandal: Fox-Tainted Donkey Meat Jan 2, 2014 Kasia Cieplak-Mayr von Baldegg The Most Powerful Images of 2013 Dec 28, 2013 Katherine Wells The Other Darwin Dec 28, 2013 Ashley Fetters The Exhausting Emotional Violence of August: Osage County Dec 25, 2013 Down More in Business If You Really Care About Ending Poverty, Stop Talking About Inequality W. Bradford Wilcox Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Matthew O'Brien Why America's Doctor Shortage Might Mean Trouble for Obamacare Matthew O'Brien In Focus The Continued Eruptions of Mount Sinabung Most Popular 1 When Good People Do Nothing: The Appalling Story of South Carolina's Prisons 2 The 3 Weirdest Things About the Weirdest Jobs Report Ever 3 Stuck: Why Americans Stopped Moving to the Richest States 4 The Black Students Who Wouldn't Leave the Lunch Counter 5 The Glorious Feeling of Fixing Something Yourself 6 Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries 7 'You Have to Know History to Actually Teach It' 8 Lone Survivor's Takeaway: Every War Movie Is a Pro-War Movie 9 Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain 10 How Netflix Reverse Engineered Hollywood Just In Cam Newton Could Become an NFL Legend—If He Wins Now Allen Barra Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition James Hamblin There Are 3 States Where Not a Single Girl Took the AP Computer Science Exam Eleanor Barkhorn ATLANTIC MEDIA The Wire The F*cking Inevitable Supercut of F*cks in 'Wolf of Wall Street' The Military's Sexual Assault Problem Extends to its Academies No One's a 'Marnie', And That's Completely Fine More from The Wire Atlantic Cities The L.A. Public Library Is About to Start Offering High School Diplomas This Chart Explains Why the Nation Is Riveted By the Chris Christie Scandal Mumbai's Snazzy New Airport Terminal More from Atlantic Cities Quartz Dollar stores are now getting too expensive for many Americans Why every gadget you own could soon take voice commands just like Siri Who’s drinking the world’s Scotch whisky More from Quartz National Journal Supreme Court Takes Up Another Obamacare-Related Case Supreme Court to Hear Broadcaster Bid to Kill Aereo Gay Utah Couples Are Married in the Eyes of the U.S.—but Not in the State That Married Them? More from National Journal Longreads How One Magazine Shaped Investigative Journalism in America How to Cure Reader’s Block Stories About Unlikeable People More from Longreads Follow The Atlantic App store Facebook Twitter Linkedin Google Plus Tumblr RSS E-Newsletters Today's Top Stories This Week This Month New at In Focus Atlantic Cities 5 Best Columns Today's News Information FAQ Subscribe Help Masthead Store Emporium Jobs Privacy Site Map Terms and Conditions Advertise Advertising Guidelines Press Contact Us Special Reports Atlantic Scene Ebook Events Atlantic Media Subscribe Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price STATE AK AL AR AZ CA CO CT DC DE FL GA HI IA ID IL IN KS KY LA MA MD ME MI MN MO MS MT NC ND NE NH NJ NM NV NY OH OK OR PA RI SC SD TN TX UT VA VT WA WI WV WY YT Next ► Fraud alert regarding The Atlantic Copyright © 2014 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. CDN powered by Edgecast Networks. Insights powered by Parsely . Powered by the Parse.ly Publisher Platform (P3). 
