Breast Cancer: The Stage You're In Is Key - ABC News
 Now Texting Shooting • Golden Globes • Jacqueline Bisset • Maddy McCann • Chris Christie • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Home > Health Breast Cancer: The Stage You're In Is Key January 6, 2006 While a diagnosis of breast cancer is almost always shocking, not all breast cancers behave in the same way. In an effort to provide the best possible plan of attack, cancer specialists perform a series of tests to classify breast tumors into stages. This information determines the extent of the cancer and is used to guide treatment decisions. While early-stage disease refers to those cancers that are still contained within the breast or have not spread very far, later-stage breast cancers may have advanced to other parts of the body. Below, Dr. D. Lawrence Wickerham, associate chairman of the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project, or NSABP, and an associate professor of human oncology at Drexel University College of Medicine in Pittsburgh, explains how staging is assessed and what it means in terms of long-term treatment planning. What are the stages of breast cancer? Breast cancer stage is a method that we can use to describe how advanced a particular cancer is. The earliest invasive breast cancers are stage I, where the cancer is limited to the breast itself. Stage II is a little bit more advanced. It involves not only the breast, but some of the lymph nodes, primarily in the armpit. Stage III disease refers to larger cancers that are more advanced, but it isn't until stage IV, the most advanced stage, that the tumor spreads into other organs in the body. Isn't there a stage earlier than stage I? Actually, the earliest stage is stage 0. Twenty years ago, these noninvasive breast cancers, which are cancers that haven't yet developed the biological ability to spread to other organs, were a rare event. It occurred in approximately 2 percent to 3 percent of the breast cancers detected every year. Now, 20 percent to 25 percent of the women who develop breast cancer in the United States will have these noninvasive breast cancers. The most common type of noninvasive breast cancer is ductal carcinoma in situ, which we abbreviate as DCIS. Ductal carcinoma in situ means that under the microscope, the duct tissue within the breast itself has the appearance of a breast cancer, but it hasn't spread outside of the ducts, the tubes within the breast. So it is in place, or in situ. The other noninvasive breast cancer is lobular carcinoma in situ, or LCIS. Sometimes it's called lobular neoplasia. Lobular carcinoma in situ affects an area of the breast within the lobules, but it's the same idea. It's a breast cancer under the microscope, but remains in place within the lobule. Why are these non-invasive breast cancer diagnoses becoming more common? The reason noninvasive breast cancers have become more common, particularly DCIS, is the increasing use of screening mammograms, which are given to women who do not have symptoms of breast cancer. With mammograms, we can find these little specks of calcium within the breast that we call microcalcifications. They are a frequent occurrence in women with DCIS. How are breast cancers staged? Staging of breast cancer depends on a variety of components of the breast cancer, particularly the size of the breast cancer and its spread within the body. We use three separate components in what we call the TNM category of staging. The T refers to the size of the tumor, the N is whether or not lymph nodes in the armpit are involved and how many lymph nodes are involved, and M is whether or not the cancer has metastasized, or spread to other organs in the body. Page 1 | 2 View Single Page Related Topics: Breast Cancer, Mastectomy, Breast Lump Removal, Oncology Hot Right Now 1 Madeleine McCann Cops Poised to Make Arrests 2 Texting Triggers Movie Theater Shooting by Retired Captain 3 What Jacqueline Bisset Really Said During Her Acceptance... 4 5 Best Moments From the 2014 Golden Globes 5 Southwest Jet Makes 'Crazy' Landing at Wrong Airport   You Might Also Like... Photo Galleries View: Celebrity Instagrams From the Golden Globes Entertainment View: This Week in Pictures: Top Photos from Around the Globe International View: The Surprising 'Winner' of the Detroit Auto Show Business View: Hilarious Pictures of Icons as Star Wars Characters Entertainment View: Tiny Million Dollar Homes For Sale Business See It, Share It Obtained by ABC News Deadly End After Cellphone Falls in Icy River Ethan Miller/Getty Images This Is What New Teen Birth Control Looks Like Leon Neal/AFP/Getty Images Madeleine McCann Cops Poised to Make Arrests Getty Images Ronan and Mia Farrow Slam Woody Allen on Twitter Mary Schwalm/AP Photo Gabby Giffords Drops a 'Maybe' About Her Political Future Sarah Ruf/AP Photo Runaway Tortoise Found 30 Miles From Home Paul Sancya/AP Photo The Surprising 'Winner' of the Detroit Auto Show Most Commented 1 Two Shot at Grove 16 Theater in Pasco County, Florida - ABC News 2 Feds Investigating Christie's Use of Sandy Relief Funds 3 2 Shot at Tampa Bay Area Movie Theater 4 Madeleine McCann Cops Poised to Make Arrests in Her Disappearance 5 Parents Cry Murder After Drunk Teen Killed in Home Invasion   Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
