Parents and Non-Deaf Babies Learning Sign - ABC News
 Now Typhoon Haiyan • John Gotti Jr. • Amy Robach • iPad Mini • 1 World Trade Center • DWTS Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Home > Health Parents and Non-Deaf Babies Learning Sign March 28 Maya Hatenbeck, a 17-month-old girl from Seattle, can tell her parents what she needs, even though she can’t say the words. Maya is one of tens of thousands of babies across the United States now using sign language to communicate, even though she is not hearing impaired. Some hospitals and day-care centers are now even offering classes on baby sign language as part of their programs. “All of a sudden she got it,” said John Hatenbeck, her father. “Milk was the first sign she did. … Then she pretty quickly got some more.” Sign With Your Baby The move toward teaching children to sign began in the late 1980s, on the heels of graduate school research in 1987 by Joseph Garcia, who lives in Bellingham, Wash. Today, Garcia is the author of Sign With Your Baby, (1999 Northlight Communications) a program promoting the use of American Sign Language (ASL) in infants. ASL is the standard sign language in North America. Garcia recommends parents begin signing with their babies by their eighth month, with some children picking it up quickly and others taking longer. “Rather than just crying and going ‘uh uh’ and reaching for something, now the baby can sign they want milk, they want juice, they want more of something,” Garcia says. Can Say When it Hurts Through simple signs, babies also can tell parents they are in pain. “We taught her the sign for medicine,” says Kim Botrin, a Seattle mother. “Now she comes to us without hesitation to tell us she is in pain and needs medicine.” ASL is not the only signing language employed. University of California-Davis psychologists Linda Acredolo and Susan Goodwyn started promoting signing back in 1996 with their book Baby Signs using invented signs. (NTC/Contemporary Publishing.) The three researchers say that babies who use sign language get less frustrated, have higher IQs and tend to speak sooner. “And when they do, they have more to say,” says Garcia. “Because they are learning language. It may be gestural but it’s the structure of language.” Linguists Cast Doubt Some linguists, however, challenge these claims, saying it remains unclear if the babies really are using the signs or if parents are acknowledging what would be their children’s normal nonverbal cues. But Maya, during ABCNEWS’ one-hour visit seemed to be using her sign language to talk to her dad. “Want your milk?” her father asked. Maya signed she wanted to come down from her high chair. “What do you want Maya?” her father asked. Maya made the sign for a swing. April Zepeda of ABC TV affiliate KOMO in Seattle, Wash., and ABCNEWS.com's Robin Eisner contributed to this report. null Commenting on this article is closed. Hot Right Now 1 Martin MacNeill's Mistress 'Shocked' by Guilty Verdict 2 Christian University Class President Comes Out as Atheist 3 ABC News' Amy Robach Reveals Breast Cancer Diagnosis 4 Ex-Mob Boss 'Junior' Gotti Stabbed But Not Cooperating With... 5 14 Things You Didn't Know About JFK   You Might Also Like... Photo Galleries View: portraits combine pets and owners Entertainment View: Bangladesh's Olympic Circus International View: 80th Anniversary of the First Photo of Scotland's Loch Ness Monster US View: This Week in Pictures: Nov. 9 - 15, 2013 International View: The Untold Stories from Iraq International See It, Share It ABC|AP Photo 6 Real-Life Political Scandals from the Show 'Scandal' Frank Polich/Bloomberg/Getty Images John Edwards and the Mistress: Breakdown of the Affair Diamond Images/Getty Images 14 Things You Didn't Know About JFK Courtesy Janet Milliken Got Ghosts? New Website Can Tell You Why Sydney Living Museums Infamous Women of the 1920s ABCNEWS.com Rabbi Finds $98K Inside of Desk Bought on Craigslist Splash News Workers, Families Take Stand Against Thanksgiving Hours Most Commented 1 Senior at Northwest Christian University Reveals in Online Student Newspaper He's an Atheist 2 Bail Hearing Set for Woman Sentenced to 20 Years for Firing Warning Shot 3 3 Guys, 3 Days To Build A Better Obamacare Website 4 Gay Man Says Trendy Term 'Queer' Is Discrimination 5 KIM_Black Friday petitions_131112   Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2013 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
