'Cabin Fever' During Cold Can Cause Uptick in Domestic Violence - ABC News
 Now Ariel Sharon • Daisy Coleman • Bill de Blasio • Chris Christie • Target Data Breach • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Home > Health 'Cabin Fever' in Cold Weather Can Cause Uptick in Domestic Violence, Experts Say Jan. 8, 2014 By SUSAN DONALDSON JAMES Susan Donaldson James More from Susan » Digital Reporter Follow @SusanDJames Susan Donaldson James More from Susan » Digital Reporter Follow @SusanDJames via Good Morning America Bonnie Bucqueroux and her ex-husband Ron, who died of cancer. Courtesy Bonnie Bocqueroux Young and poor, Bonnie Bucqueroux said she worried every time the weather turned cold and she was housebound with her abusive husband and had nowhere to turn. "I married at 18 because my parents didn't like my boyfriend," she told ABCNews.com. "But I discovered in the first six months he had a very violent streak. In elementary school, he almost killed another student -- he almost choked him to death." One night in the middle of a Michigan snowstorm, he took his "cabin fever" out on Bucqueroux, she said. "He was a heavy drinker and often I found myself in a bad situation, trapped in our trailer with not enough money for a phone," she said. "One snowy evening, I walked into the kitchen just to try and sweep up the floor. I didn't know he had crept up behind me. For some reason, he grabbed me and threw me across the room, bouncing me off the cabinets. He kicked me and threw me out in the snow and locked the door." Bucqueroux said she was so "profoundly humiliated," she couldn't even seek help from a neighbor. So, she banged on the trailer door, begging her husband to let her back in. "It was 1962 -- there were no shelters and no place to go," she said. Today, Bucqueroux, 69 and long widowed, teaches at Michigan State University's School of Journalism and was the former coordinator of its Victims and the Media program. When the weather turns bitter cold, as it has been across the country this week, she worries about an uptick in domestic violence. Frigid 'polar vortex' cripples U.S. for second straight day. Wind chill advisories and warnings were in effect on Tuesday for 32 states from Montana to southern Florida. During a similar deep freeze in December, Bucqueroux wrote about danger that women with few resources face when the weather turns nasty. "Those were the nights I would carefully go through the house and make sure there were no knives or scissors in view," she wrote in Lansing Online about her own experience. "I figured I stood a fighting chance against fists, kicks and attempts to choke me, but if he ever picked up a weapon ..." "Being cooped up together with little or no relief can fray tempers among the best of us. Cranky kids tired of being cold can up the ante. And people whose coping mechanisms include leaving the house to cool off are less likely to do so when the temperature is in single digits outside. While there are no national statistics on a direct correlation between domestic violence and the weather, the Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network (RAINN) has reported a high number of calls reporting sexual assault in December and so far in January, when storms and cold kicked in. Its National Sexual Assault Online Hotline usage was up 20 percent since the fall. The combined phone and online hotline usage was up 7 percent with an average of 404 calls and online sessions per day. Call rates have continued to climb this week. "During the recent severe cold weather we would expect that violence is also more likely to occur as families are confined in the home for extended periods and that, as with holidays, the opportunity for escape is quite low," said Gwyn Kaitis, director of the City of Chicago Domestic Violence Help Line/Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women's Network. "Women, especially those with few resources to begin with, have even fewer resources when bad weather occurs. It is difficult to impossible to take the children and leave home, there is often a lack of transportation, and quite frequently no place to go. Calling outside the home for help or trying to leave and not being able to successfully do so can lead to even more serious danger, injuries, and possibly even death." As far back as 1998, local law enforcement has used the term "cabin fever" as an explanation for why they get so many domestic calls from families who are "cooped up" tend to "get on each other's nerves." And cold isn't the only trigger. In Britain, some law enforcement officials say rain is to blame for an increase in domestic violence cases, according to The Telegraph. Police in the coastal Devon and Cornwell region, said antisocial behavior is common during bad weather. The wettest summer since 1912 plagued that coastal area in 2012, and police reported 75 domestic abuse cases in one 24-hour period when the area had been hit with heavy rain. "People get cabin fever locked in a house together," Sgt. Andy Turner told local government officials, according to The Telegraph. But David Finkelhor, director of the Crimes against Children Research Center at the University of New Hampshire said that weather may be a precipitant for violence, but only a "minor" one. "Things like unemployment and economic downturns and things that generate social stress on a larger level are more important," he said. "A lot of it probably has to do with environment. In places used to dealing with cold weather, it's likely less of a stressor." In Michigan, where Bucqueroux lives, an ice storm in December knocked out power over Christmas and with the weather, temperatures have been minus 14 at night with daytime wind chills of minus 35, she said. "It's really bad," she said. "People with resources can bail and go to a hotel, but people who don't have much are really pressed, and they aren't always women –- same sex couples have the same issues. They don't necessarily know where the warming centers are where they can be safe or which shelters are open and not full. These are stressful times and they don't have much money." Page 1 | 2 View Single Page More from ABC News Nanny Jailed for Shaken Baby Death Gives Birth Kleenex Designer Goes Public as Sex Assault Survivor Teen Relationship Turns Abusive ... and Worse Teen Dating Abuse Rises With Recession Kleenex Designer Fights Domestic Violence, Sexual Assault More Video » Related Topics: Weather, Domestic Violence, Chicago, Same-Sex Unions, Gay Marriage, Extreme Weather, U.S., United Kingdom, Job Losses, Blizzard 2013 Join the Discussion You are using an outdated version of Internet Explorer. Please click here to upgrade your browser in order to comment. blog comments powered by Disqus Hot Right Now 1 Top 4 Risky Places to Swipe Your Debit Card 2 Maryville Teen Not Normal After Alleged Rape, Mom Says 3 This Year's Flu Hitting the Young, Healthy 4 Sam Berns, Boy With 'Aging Disease,' Dies at 17 5 Naval Academy Sex Assault Case Takes Unexpected Turn   You Might Also Like... Photo Galleries View: Hotel Suite of the Week: Royal Suite at The Goring Hotel Travel View: The Extraordinary and Endearing Antics of Penguins Lifestyle View: Khloe and Lamar's Calif. Mansion Officially On Sale Business View: Hilarious Pictures of Icons as Star Wars Characters Entertainment View: Annual Kite Flying Festival Draws Pros From Across The Globe International See It, Share It HBO Sam Berns, Boy With 'Aging Disease,' Dies at 17 Michael Tran/Getty Images What to Expect From Tonight's 71st Golden Globe Awards Getty Images 9 Ways to Detox Your Home Michael Stewart/Getty Images 'Girls' Star Reveals Why He'll Be Naked Again This Season Courtesy Manicou River Resort Unplug and Reboot the Senses at Low-Tech Retreats Courtesy Oyster.com 8 Kid-tastic Hawaiian Resorts Carlo Allegri/Reuters Photo 5 Ways to Protect Yourself When Using Airbnb Most Commented 1 Parents Cry Murder After Drunk Teen Killed in Home Invasion 2 Mile Marker 420 Becomes 419.99 to Thwart Thieves 3 Chris Christie Fires Top Aide, Apologizes for Bridge Scandal 4 The Next Shoes to Drop in the Chris Christie Bridge Scandal 5 Satanists Unveil Design for Okla. Capitol Monument   Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
