Tyra Banks: Latest Stalked Celeb - ABC News
 Now Ariel Sharon • Chemical Leak • Valerie Trierweiler • Chris Christie • Road Rage Killing • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Home > Health Tyra Banks: Latest Stalked Celeb March 25, 2008 — By AINA HUNTER Besides her fame, wealth and good looks, there's something else that separates talk show host and model mogul Tyra Banks from most other people who've ever been stalked: The odds are that the alleged perpetrator in her case is suffering from some kind of delusional thinking. Brady Green, a 37-year-old Georgia native who unnerved Banks, was arrested last week and charged with stalking, harassment and criminal trespass before being released on his own recognizance, according to the New York Post. Green allegedly harassed Banks for months, including making phone calls, sending letters and flowers and visiting her Los Angeles studios. Such behavior, which is typical of people who stalk celebrities, is a far cry from men who "treat their wives like possessions," said Jack Levin, a criminologist at Northeastern University in Boston. About 10 percent of the general population — the vast majority, women — have been stalked at some point in their lives, according to the National Institute of Justice. But the "everyday stalker is usually not schizophrenic — he just suffers from poor character," Levin said. "There is often a trigger, like a divorce or custody dispute." Dan Barber, a private investigator who has worked on numerous stalking and murder cases, emphasizes that the more routine cases should not be taken lightly. In some cases the spurned boyfriend or husband is what criminologists call a "psychopathic personality stalker" — usually a man from a dysfunctional home who uses violence as a form of control. But when it comes to celebrity stalkers, Levin said, schizophrenia or some other form of pathological delusional thinking is the norm. "He may be paranoid, may hallucinate, hear voices [or] suffer from a profound thought disorder." The profile of a celebrity stalker is one who actually believes he -- and in rare cases, she -- is engaged in a close, personal relationship with the oblivious star. Still, not all star stalkers are psychotic. According to Bruce Mapes, a Philadelphia forensic psychologist, otherwise healthy people can be "addicted" to the thought of a relationship with a star and go to any lengths to achieve that. He or she may need to be treated with intense therapy and/or medication, and in extreme cases, hospitalization. Here are some other famous cases. (Evan Agostini/ AP Photo) Late-night talk show host Conan O'Brien is known for his comedic antics on his NBC show, but persistent attention from a stalker was no laughing matter. Boston priest David Ajemian, 46, allegedly sent multiple disturbing communications to O'Brien during a 14-month period. Ajemian was eventually arrested by New York City police after trying to gain entry to O'Brien's Rockefeller Center studio. Despite the scandal, his seminary mentor has said Ajemian was a "kind and caring" person. (Stuart Ramson/ AP Photo ) "Kill Bill" star Uma Thurman was stalked by an obsessed fan for two years. Jack Jordan, 35, was arrested outside of the actress' home in the West Village in New York City on Oct. 5, 2007, after reportedly camping outside of her house, trespassing on a movie set and drawing a bizarre cartoon of Thurman digging a grave for him. He allegedly sent a letter to her with the eerie threat, "I feel afraid that if I see you out again with another man, I will want to kill myself, maybe even after we meet." Jordan, a former psychiatric patient, was charged with attempted coercion, stalking and aggravated harassment. Page 1 | 2 View Single Page More from ABC News Spy Claims to Have Tape of Douglas Wedding Zomba/Jive Sues MP3.com Related Topics: Tyra Banks, Mental Health, Schizophrenia, Saturday Night Live, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Uma Thurman, Gwyneth Paltrow, Janet Jackson, Avril Lavigne, Britney Spears Hot Right Now 1 Top 4 Risky Places to Swipe Your Debit Card 2 Road Rage Killing Victim's First 911 Call Was Dropped 3 Sam Berns, Boy With 'Aging Disease,' Dies at 17 4 This Year's Flu Hitting the Young, Healthy 5 Maryville Teen Not Normal After Alleged Rape, Mom Says   You Might Also Like... Photo Galleries View: Annual Kite Flying Festival Draws Pros From Across The Globe International View: 'What I Be Project' Looks at Your Worst Fears Lifestyle View: 'What I Be Project' Looks at Your Worst Fears Lifestyle View: See Venus Williams' $1.8M Home Business View: Fukushima's Ghost Towns International See It, Share It Thomas Samson/AP Photo French First Lady Hospitalized After Affair Report Mass.Gov. Mom Arrested in Alleged Kidnapping of 6-Year-Old Getty Images Road Rage Killing Victim's First 911 Call Was Dropped Getty Images 9 Ways to Detox Your Home ABCNews.com Alabama Pastor Officially Charged For Wife's Murder Zillow Tiny Million Dollar Homes For Sale TLC, Bryant Livingston, File/AP Photo 'Sister Wives' Family Humbled by Polygamy Ruling Most Commented 1 Victim in Suspected Road Rage Case Made Multiple 911 Calls - ABC News 2 Rudy Giuliani: Chris Christie’s Career ‘Completely at Risk’ If He Isn’t Telling the Truth 3 Parents Cry Murder After Drunk Teen Killed in Home Invasion 4 Subpoenas Expected for Christie Aides over 'Bridgegate' 5 Mile Marker 420 Becomes 419.99 to Thwart Thieves   Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
