Mortgage rates show slight increase heading into the end of the year
 Real Estate Rentals Cars Today's Paper Going Out Guide Find&Save Service Alley Home PostTV In PostTV Politics In Politics Congress Courts & Law The Fed Page Health Care Polling White House GovBeat Md. Politics Va. Politics D.C. Politics Blogs & Columns Priorities USA set to join 2016 fray with new leadership Post Politics | Matea Gold The 10 things you need to know about Bridge-gate The Fix | Aaron Blake How damaged is Chris Christie? Here’s who will tell you. The Monkey Cage | John Sides Economy improves California’s fortunes, but Brown urges caution GovBeat | Reid Wilson Obama political donor leading IRS investigation The Federal Eye | Josh Hicks Opinions In Opinions Toles Cartoons Telnaes Animations The Post's View Letters to the Editor Local Opinions Columnist Index Featured Blogs Three amazing moments from the Traffic Studies Gone Wild Christie apology conference ComPost | Alexandra Petri Happy Hour Roundup The Plum Line | Ryan Cooper What newspapers can do PostPartisan | Colbert I. King Tipping point on sanctions? Right Turn | Jennifer Rubin Local In Local D.C. Maryland Virginia Crime Education Obituaries Transportation Weather Blogs & Columns Blogs & Columns Freezing rain to plain rain Friday; slick AM commute possible Capital Weather Gang | Jason Samenow Is Pasta Mia in Adams Morgan on the verge of closing? Going Out Guide | Tim Carman Metro working on all five lines this weekend Dr. Gridlock | Robert Thomson Sports In Sports Redskins/NFL Capitals/NHL Wizards/NBA Nationals/MLB D.C. United/Soccer Colleges AllMetSports Blogs & Columns Other Sports Blogs & Columns Video: Grubauer’s split save Capitals Insider | Katie Carrera Dave Owens asks first Jay Gruden question DC Sports Bog | Dan Steinberg Joe Jacoby not among NFL Hall of Fame finalists The Insider | Mark Maske Nats sign Fontenot Nationals Journal | Adam Kilgore National In National Energy & Environment Health & Science Education National Security Investigations Innovations Know More Religion On Giving Corrections Blogs & Columns A look at Audi’s new concept car Innovations | Sandi Moynihan Circumcision less common in U.S. and parts of Europe Michelle Boorstein Misdemeanor charge in Maryville case She The People | Diana Reese World In World Africa The Americas Asia & Pacific Europe Middle East National Security War Zones Special Reports Columns & Blogs Blogs & Columns Photos of Castro’s first appearance in months WorldViews | Max Fisher The 10 fastest-growing economies WorldViews | Max Fisher How Mideasterners think women should dress WorldViews | Max Fisher Rodman’s North Korea high jinks aren’t funny WorldViews | Max Fisher Business In Business Economy Industries Markets Policy & Regulation Know More World Business Capital Business On Leadership On Small Business On I.T. Blogs & Columns Countdown to the 21-Day Financial Fast The Color of Money | Michelle Singletary The best sentences we read today Wonkblog | Brad Plumer A Snapchat for executives On Leadership | Jena McGregor Tech In Technology Innovation Green Technology The Switch Photo Galleries Blogs & Columns Nanoport: Connect and charge your devices with magnets Hayley Tsukayama You don’t need subtitles to fear China’s newest sniper rifle The Switch | Brian Fung FCC chairman’s strongest endorsement yet of net neutrality The Switch | Brian Fung Yahoo implements SSL poorly The Switch | Andrea Peterson Lifestyle In Lifestyle Advice Carolyn Hax Food Express Home & Garden Style Travel Weddings Wellness Magazine KidsPost On Parenting Blogs & Columns HBO announces end of ‘Boardwalk Empire,’ sets ‘Game of Thrones’ and ‘Veep’ return dates The Style Blog | Emily Yahr Congress is a millionaires’ club The Reliable Source | Emily Heil Entertainment In Entertainment Books Comics Going Out Guide Horoscopes Movies Museums Music Puzzles & Games Theater & Dance TV Blogs & Columns ‘I’ve finally made it!’: Stan Lee, the Hub team on new movie Comic Riffs | Michael Cavna Is Pasta Mia in Adams Morgan on the verge of closing? Going Out Guide | Tim Carman Jobs In Jobs More Classifieds Cars Deals Real Estate Rentals Photos Blogs Discussions Find&Save Obituaries Archives Topics WP Wine Club WP BrandConnect Where We Live Washington's source for real estate happenings Buy a Home Sell a Home Neighborhoods Rentals Tools & Calculators Recently Sold Homes Agent Directory Archives Follow: More Mortgage rates show slight increase heading into the end of the year By Kathy Orton December 26, 2013 at 10:14 am More Comments (Win McNamee/Getty Images) Mortgage rates moved up slightly heading into the end of the year, according to the latest data released Thursday by Freddie Mac. The 30-year fixed-rate average nudged up to 4.48 percent with an average 0.7 point. It was 4.47 percent a week ago and 3.35 percent a year ago. Since spiking to 4.58 percent in late August, the 30-year fixed rate has bounced between 4.57 percent and 4.1 percent. The 15-year fixed-rate average ticked up to 3.52 percent with an average 0.7 point. It was 3.51 percent a week ago and 2.65 percent a year ago. Before rising above 3.5 percent last week, the 15-year fixed rate had remained below that mark since late September. Hybrid adjustable rate mortgages were mixed. The five-year ARM average hit 3 percent for the first time since mid-November. It was 3 percent with an average 0.4 point. The five-year ARM average was 2.96 percent a week ago and 2.7 percent a year ago. The one-year ARM average fell to 2.56 percent with an average 0.5 point. It was down from 2.57 percent a week ago. “Mortgage rates were little changed this week following mixed economic reports,” Frank E. Nothaft, Freddie Mac vice president and chief economist, said in a statement. “Real GDP was revised upwards to 4.1 percent growth in the third quarter of this year. However, existing-home sales dropped 4.3 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4,900,000 in November.  Also, new home sales fell 2.1 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 464,000.” Meanwhile, mortgage applications continued to decline last week, according to the latest data from the Mortgage Bankers Association. The Market Composite Index, a measure of total loan application volume, sank 6.3 percent. The Refinance index dropped 8 percent, while the Purchase Index fell 4 percent. “Following the Federal Reserve’s taper announcement, mortgage application volume dropped again last week, with rates increasing and refinance application volume falling to its lowest level since November 2008,” Mike Fratantoni, MBA’s vice president of research and economics, said in a statement  “Purchase application volume was weak, too, continuing to run more than 10 percent below last year’s pace.” The refinance share of mortgage activity accounted for 65 percent of all applications. Also on Where We Live My First Apartment | Income restrictions prove to be obstacle in housing search The Post Most 1 Firing of Stepien deprives Christie of a key counselor 2 How to fight academic bigotry 3 Indian diplomat indicted on charges of visa fraud, false statements 4 Chris Christie is not the victim 5 No, Niagara Falls is not "frozen solid" 
