December 3, 2013 | ARLnow.com
 Network: Arlington Bethesda Pr. Wm. / Stafford Reston About Us Advertise 41° Fair The Latest: Traffic Metrobus Involved in Accident With Overturned Vehicle on Route 1 Forums Reply To: Vanilla Blog Comments Forums Featured Events Project NYE DC 2014 – The Great Gatsby on the Potomac December 31, 9:30 pm to 2:00 am, January 01 New Years Eve 2014 hosted by ABC’s Bachelor Chris Bukowski December 31, 10:00 pm to 3:00 am, January 01 & Nights of Tango February 03 - 7:30 pm to 10:00 pm Archive Calendar November December 2013 M T W T F S S   1 2 Hayes Street Construction to Wrap Up This Spring Two Injured in Taxi-Tow Truck Crash Red Mango Closes in Clarendon Police Investigating Assault with Baseball Bat Former Attorney Trying to Make Email More Secure Morning Poll: Christmas Trees Morning Notes 3 Nonprofit Bike Shop Plan Picking Up Opposition Washington Blvd Bridge Over Columbia Pike Now Open Arlington Agenda (Dec. 3-8) Ask Adam: Are We in a Real Estate Bubble? UPDATE: Repairs on 16-Inch Water Main Continue Morning Notes Shirlington Tree Lighting to Close Streets Tonight 4 UPDATE: Water Main Repairs To Continue Into Thursday Rosslyn to Host Holiday Pop-Up Shop Next Friday Crime Report: Man’s Ear Severed in Fight NOVA Legal Beat: Harsh Treatment Due to Pregnancy? BREAKING: Man Charged in Fatal Memorial Circle Crash Introducing Real-Time Real Estate Stats Arlington Pet of the Week: Chloe Water Main Repairs Continue in Shirlington Blue Line to Be Split This Weekend Morning Notes 5 EnviroCab Founder a Surprise Candidate for County Board Arlington Changes Parking Ticket Appeals Process Peter’s Take: Budget Guidance Fails The Right Note: Another TIF Imminent New County Homepage to Debut Soon Two Companies Win Ballston Startup Competition Morning Poll: Metro Fare Hikes Morning Notes Arlington Home Buyer Seminar (Sponsored) 6 Rosslyn’s New Metro Elevators All Out of Service for Morning Rush Arlington 911 Trainee Accused of Sex Crime Open Houses in Arlington This Weekend Winter Storm Watch Issued for Region Miracle on 23rd Street Returns Tonight Your Beermonger: DIY Beer Infusion with Dogfish Head’s Randall Jr. Community Group Wants Affordable Housing at Lubber Run Police: Arlington Man Struck By Taxi on Rt. 1 Morning Poll: Long Bridge Park Aquatics Center Morning Notes 7 8 Roads Treacherous As Storm Continues 9 Winter Storm Warning Issued Longtime Civic Activist Robert Atkins Dies Storm Cleanup Continues As Arlington Braces For More Snow Introducing ARLbiz, A Local Business E-Newsletter Arlington Agenda (Dec. 9-15) Robeks in Courthouse Closes Shirlington-Area Pool Hall Lucy’s ARL Closes Pike Super Stop Doesn’t Keep Out the Snow Filmmaker’s Magnetic Pins for Races Are Selling Fast More Snow on the Way: NWS Issues Winter Storm Watch Morning Notes UPDATED: Schools Closed, Federal Gov’t Delayed UPDATED: Arlington Home Buyer Seminar (Sponsored) 10 Red Parrot Closes in Ballston Decal Contest Finalists Announced Rental Report: Where Do I Start My Apartment Search? Snow Delays Some County Services, Parking Still Enforced Avery Row Apartments Now Leasing Increased Efficiency Earns County Rare Kudos from Taxpayers Association County Offers Explanation for Higher Aquatic Center Costs Morning Notes Schools, Feds Close as Flakes Start Falling 11 UPDATED: Water Main Break Shuts Down Columbia Pike Kaine Praises Budget Deal, but Disappointed With Cuts County Requests Temporary Extension of Comcast Contract Wright Way: Green is the New Black Arlington Pet of the Week: Pooh Another Tire Slashing Spree in Hall’s Hill Morning Poll: Will You Trust The Next Snow Forecast? Morning Notes Video Tour: Live/Work Apartments in Clarendon 12 Bangkok 54 Fire Shuts Down Market, But Not Restaurant Wakefield HS to Host Holiday Bazaar and Craft Fair Independent Announces Candidacy for County Board The Right Note: One of a Kind Peter’s Take: Cancel the Aquatics Center and Start Over Volunteer Opportunities: The Holidays and Beyond Free Taxis Available Every Night During the Holidays Clarendon Bar Crawl to Benefit Cystic Fibrosis Crime Report: Armed Robbery in Hotel Room Morning Notes BREAKING: Fire at Bangkok 54 13 School Board Raises Proposed Gift Limit to $100 Open Houses in Arlington this Weekend Arlington Deputy Convicted of Voluntary Manslaughter in Alexandria Your Beermonger: The Joy of J.W. Lees Harvest Ales Arlington Ranks as 7th Highest-Income County in U.S. New 750-Unit Apartment Complex Proposed for Park Shirlington Morning Poll: Least Attractive City in America? Morning Notes 14 15 16 New Italian Store Location to Replace 7-Eleven in Westover Arlington Agenda (Dec. 16-22) Noise Complaints Lead to Changes at A-Town Clarendon Startup Tackles Hotel Booking Headaches Photos: Dogs Pose with Santa in Clarendon Board Approves New Office Parking Policy Morning Notes 17 Hamburger Hamlet in Crystal City Likely to Close New Traffic Pattern Coming to Pike Interchange Ebbin Says He’s ‘Working to Win’ on Gay Marriage Garvey: No Democratic Board Candidate ‘Can Do What Needs to Be Done’ Ask Adam: Custom or Spec Home? Teen Robbed for His Shoes New Restaurant to Replace Leek in Ballston Morning Notes 18 Metrobus Involved in Accident With Overturned Vehicle on Route 1 County Board Seeks Bag Fee Authority NOVA Legal Beat: Unfair Unsatisfactory Rating? Taste of Morocco in Clarendon Closes Arlington Pet of the Week: Max County Approves ‘Jumbotrons’ Near Metro Stations County to Identify Public Land for Affordable Housing Morning Notes 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31   Home Real Estate Forums Event Calendar Service Directory Map Columns: Startup Monday Ask Adam Rental Report Legal Beat Wright Way Your Beermonger Nonprofit Bike Shop Plan Picking Up Opposition by ARLnow.com | December 3, 2013 at 4:55 pm | 2,176 views | No Comments Potential site of the new Phoenix Bikes headquarters (via Google Maps) Opposition flier (courtesy photo) Current Phoenix Bikes headquarters (via Facebook) Current Phoenix Bikes headquarters (via Facebook) Show Thumbnails A plan to build a new headquarters for Phoenix Bikes has picked up some neighborhood opposition. Phoenix Bikes is a nonprofit focused on empowering youths by teaching them bicycle repair and entrepreneurship. The organization wants to move from its present cinder block building in Barcroft Park to a new location on county-owned land adjacent to the W&OD Trail, near the intersection of Walter Reed Drive and Four Mile Run Drive. The new facility will feature education space, public restrooms, a drinking fountain, a water bottle refill station and an air pump. A second public hearing on the proposal will be held tomorrow, Dec. 4, at the Park Operations conference room (2700 S. Taylor Street). Fliers sent to condo associations around the neighborhood suggest that some residents will be attending to voice opposition to the plan. “Arlington County plans to remove trees… to build a replacement facility in what is now a wooded area for the nonprofit Phoenix Bikes, which will be used for training teens in bicycle repair,” the flier says. “The facility will provide only 3 parking places and thus its visitors will be parking on streets near your homes. The facility will be lighted until 9:00 p.m. and may provide public bathrooms attractive to drunks.” Susan Kalish, spokeswoman for the Arlington Dept. of Parks and Recreation, says it’s too early to determine how many trees would have to be cut down to make way for the facility. She said any trees that are removed will be replaced per county policy. “It’s way too preliminary to know how many trees are impacted because the exact location of the building, its size or the size of an associated parking lot have not been determined,” she said. “That said, when the building plans are finalized the County will use its standard tree replacement formula.” The flier makes reference to County Board member Libby Garvey, who sits on the board of Phoenix Bikes. It also accuses Arlington County of not giving enough notice to residents about the first public meeting. Phoenix Bikes is currently raising money for the new headquarters, which is projected to cost $1 million. As announced today, proceeds from next year’s Crystal City Diamond Derby will be used to help fund the headquarters. The text of the full opposition flyer, after the jump. (more…) Section: News | Tags: bicycling, nonprofit, parks department, W&OD trail Washington Blvd Bridge Over Columbia Pike Now Open by Ethan Rothstein | December 3, 2013 at 3:30 pm | 1,388 views | No Comments Northbound traffic on Washington Blvd is now going over the newly-constructed overpass over Columbia Pike. The bridge, which has been under construction since 2012, was built to replace the previous structure. The old bridge was built in the 1940s as part of the original Pentagon Roadway Network and had been in “poor condition,” according to VDOT. Construction on the project is still expected to wrap up at some point in 2015, according to VDOT’s project website. Lane closures will continue on Columbia Pike into 2014 while the new bridge is finished and the old bridge is demolished. Demolition is expected to happen as soon as January. Section: Traffic | Tags: Columbia Pike, road construction, VDOT, Washington Blvd Bridge Arlington Agenda (Dec. 3-8) by Ethan Rothstein | December 3, 2013 at 2:30 pm | 287 views | No Comments Arlington Agenda is a listing of interesting events for the week ahead in Arlington County. If you’d like to see your event featured, fill out the  event submission form. Also, be sure to check out our  event calendar. Wednesday Ballston BID Launchpad Finale Regal Ballston Common Mall Movie Theater (671 N. Glebe Road) Time: 6:00 to 9:00 p.m. Judges Ted Leonsis, Aneesh Chopra, Rep. Gerry Connolly and Mark Gruhin will choose a winning company for the yearlong startup competition. Registration is $49, includes an open bar, and the deadline to register is midnight. Thursday Light Up Rosslyn Under the WJLA Jumbotron (1100 Wilson Blvd) Time: 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. THIS EVENT HAS BEEN CANCELED.   Saturday Animal Feeding 101 — Turtles at Potomac Overlook Potomac Overlook Regional Park (2845 N. Marcey Road) Time: 1:00 to 2:00 p.m. Volunteers can help regional park staff gather insects and worms to feed animals at the Nature Center, particularly the captive turtles. A $5 donation is requested and attendees can call 703-528-5406 to make a reservation. Pentagon Row’s Grand Re-opening Celebration Pentagon Row Ice Rink (1201 S. Joyce Street) Time: 5:00 to 8:00 p.m. The outdoor ice rink — now Northern Virginia’s largest — hosts its grand re-opening in time for the holidays. There will be a DJ, a s’mores station to benefit a Girl Scouts troop and a surprise performance at 8:00 p.m. Sunday Food Drive at TJ Community Center* Thomas Jefferson Community Center Gym (125 S. Old Glebe Road) Time: 9:30 a.m. to noon Grace Community Church is organizing volunteers in hopes to package more than 100,000 meals for children in impoverished areas.  National Chamber Ensemble Holiday Concert* Artisphere Spectrum Theatre (1611 N. Kent Street) Time: 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. The National Chamber Ensemble celebrates the holiday season with a selection of holiday music like “Sleigh Ride,” Chanukah songs and pieces by Tchaikovsky and others. Tickets are $30 for adults and $15 for students. *Denotes featured (sponsored) event Section: Events | Tags: Arlington Agenda Ask Adam: Are We in a Real Estate Bubble? by ARLnow.com | December 3, 2013 at 1:00 pm | 1,635 views | No Comments This regularly-scheduled sponsored Q&A column is written by Adam Gallegos of  Arlington-based real estate firm Arbour Realty, voted one of Arlington Magazine’s Best Realtors of 2013. Please submit follow-up questions in the comments section or  via email. Question: A re you concerned about a ‘new’ real estate bubble forming — and popping — in the Northern VA/DC area? Obviously the rest of the country is still recovering from 2008 (at best) but we dodged a bullet… but given the unlimited QE by the Fed/etc., this bubble is going to have to pop eventually… thoughts? This area is obviously insulated about as much as possible given all the $$$$$ in the area, but still. I’m certainly not an economist by any stretch, but I can share my personal thought based on my professional experience as an Arlington real estate broker. I think we can all agree that real estate home values have been rising throughout 2013. RBI is reporting that the median price of sold homes in Arlington is up 6% from this time last year. The Case-Shiller index reports a 7% home price increase for the Washington DC area over the last 12 months. Buyer activity has increased in 2013. Some of this is due to a release of pent up demand from would-be homebuyers that have been waiting on the sidelines for the real estate market to stabilize or the price of their current home to reach a point where they could afford to sell and buy something that fit their current needs. Another factor leading to an increase in prices is the low supply of housing inventory. New home development is still in hibernation. The rental market has been strong enough that many would-be home sellers are opting to rent their homes rather than sell them because of the favorable rental income they can generate. Other homeowners are either happy where they are or have not seen the value of their homes reach a point where they are motivated to sell. So if prices are rising, does that mean we are in a bubble? No, but having been through the bursting bubble of 2006/2007 we are all on high alert. I would even go so far as to say that some of us have been conditioned to feel that increasing prices will inevitably lead to a housing market bubble. Looking back at what happened leading up to 2006… prices were rising at a much faster speed. You may remember zip codes in Arlington experiencing greater than 20% appreciation in 2003 and 2004. Prices are rising again, but at more reasonable pace. An important (but subtle) difference is that home buyers are not depending on rapid appreciation. You’ll also remember the infamous mortgages that people were obtaining, which they would never qualify for under the current standards. Today’s growth is happening on a more stable base of financing where homebuyers are bringing equity to the closing table and having to meet higher standards for qualification. (more…) Section: Real Estate, Sponsored Article | Tags: Ask Adam UPDATE: Repairs on 16-Inch Water Main Continue by Ethan Rothstein | December 3, 2013 at 11:30 am | 1,540 views | No Comments Show Thumbnails Two water mains in south Arlington broke this morning, requiring major repairs and closing roads and county buildings in the process. A 16-inch water main burst on S. Arlington Mill Drive at the entrance to the Village at Shirlington early Tuesday, closing the road from S. Randolph Street to S. Taylor Street. The break caused Abingdon Elementary School and Fairlington Community Center to close for the day. Some neighborhoods around the area lost water service this morning, but according to Arlington Dept. of Environmental Services (DES) spokeswoman Myllisa Kennedy water has since been restored to all residents, as well as the school, as repairs continue. The line is being excavated and repairs are expected to last until late afternoon, Kennedy said. A separate, smaller water main also broke in Nauck this morning. Repairs have closed S. Monroe Street between 24th and 25th Streets as a result. Update at 3:55 p.m. — Repairs on the 16-inch line are taking longer than expected. Residents in Fairlington will have little or no water pressure until the repairs are complete, according to DES spokeswoman Robyn Mincher. The leaked 16 inch pipe has been exposed and workers found a long split. It may take another 5 to 6 hours from now to complete repairs. The traffic on Arlington Mill Drive will remain closed through early evening. The north entrance from Arlington Mill Drive to the garage located in Harris Teeter will be open by 4 p.m. to accommodate the tree lighting event. The attempts to open the other feed to Fairlington area were not successful. More repairs on valves will be done at a later date. As of now, Fairlington has no water or may be experiencing very low pressure. This situation will last until the 16 inch main is repaired. Update at 7:15 p.m. — Repairs are continuing, Mincher says, but might stretch into Wednesday. The intersection from Arlington Mill Drive to the north entrance of Harris Teeter’s Garage will remain closed. The traffic will stop at S. Randolph St. on Arlington Mill Drive. The repair has run into complications with excessive water draining from the pipe that required more time to pump out. The replacement will be for two sections of pipe instead of one. These complications have added time to completion. The projected time of completion is approximately 5 ½ hours from now. The crew is complying with 16 safe-hour limit and will stop to continue in the morning if work is not completed by 10 pm. Night crew is working on a valve repair to restore water to Fairlington. If they finish early, they will supplement work on the pipe repair. Update at 10:15 p.m. — County repair crews are calling it a day. Repairs will resume after rush hour tomorrow. Crews will resume repair work tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. after the rush hour. This is due to the complications mentioned earlier and the 16 safe-hour limit. There will be one westbound lane open to traffic on Arlington Mill Drive and police will control the traffic throughout the night. The Fairlington area will remain on low water pressure until the valve on the other line can be fixed. Section: Traffic | Tags: road closures, Shirlington, water main break Morning Notes by ARLnow.com | December 3, 2013 at 10:35 am | 1,065 views | No Comments Projected Subsidy Soars for Aquatics Center — The planned Long Bridge Park Aquatics Center could require more than $4 million per year in subsidies from the county government, according to new projections. That’s up from projections as low at $1 million per year. “Certainly there are other priorities that arguably should come before building a luxury pools facility,” said local fiscal watchdog Wayne Kubicki. Construction contracts for the aquatics center are expected to be awarded early next year. [ Sun Gazette] County May Allow Less Office Parking, For a Fee — Arlington County is considering a system that would allow office developers to build less than the currently-required amount of parking, in exchange for a per-parking-space fee. The fee would then be used for public improvements in the area around the building, or for Transportation Demand Management Services for the building’s tenants. [ Greater Greater Washington] Memorial Bridge Could Have Looked Like Tower Bridge — The Arlington Memorial Bridge was originally proposed as a memorial to Gen. Ulysses S. Grant, complete with a series of “medieval”-looking towers and turrets. [ Ghosts of DC] Arlington Carpenter’s Intricately-Carved Birds — Arlington carpenter Jeff Jacobs, 59, carves intricate wooden hummingbirds out of a single block of wood. He sells the birds at Eastern Market and the Clarendon farmers market. [ Washington Post] Flickr photo by Eschweik Section: News | Tags: aquatics center, crafts, development, history, Long Bridge Park, Memorial Bridge, office building, parking Shirlington Tree Lighting to Close Streets Tonight by Ethan Rothstein | December 3, 2013 at 9:30 am | 716 views | No Comments Shirlington’s “Light Up the Village” festival will take place tonight (Tuesday), and some roads in the Village at Shirlington will be closed for the festivities. From 4:00 to 10:00 p.m., Campbell Avenue, from Arlington Mill Drive to S. Quincy Street and S. Randolph Street, from Arlington Mill Drive to the alley behind Charlie Chang’s Restaurant (roughly the 3000 block), will be closed for the event. During that time, vehicles will not be allowed to leave Harris Teeter’s covered parking lot onto Campbell Avenue. Parking in the area is also restricted, so drivers should be on the lookout for spaces with “No Parking” signs. Light Up the Village will be held from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. The tree lighting should begin at 6:30, hosted by WTTG’s Allison Seymour. There will also be horse and carriage rides available for those donating non-perishable goods to the Arlington Food Assistance Center, photos with Santa at the UPS Store (2776 S. Arlington Mill Drive), free face painting and live holiday music. Section: Events, Traffic | Tags: road closures, Shirlington Copyright © 2013 Local News Now LLC. All Rights Reserved. Home Advertise About Us Terms of Use & Privacy Policy Email Newsletter Information technology services provided by Arlington Virginia Computer Repair. Site designed and developed by 10up. Background/logo design by Beth Singer Design. × Subscribe to our mailing list * Email Address: First Name: Last Name: Subscribe 
