On Newtown anniversary, America's mental health system still a mess | Fox News
 Fox News Digital Network   Fox News   Fox Business   uReport   Fox News Radio   Fox News Latino   Fox Nation   Fox News Insider Login Account You're logged in as   Profile Logout Search Site Listen to Fox News Radio Live › On Air Now › On Air Personalities ›   Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports On Air Previous Slide Next Slide Opinion Home Michael Goodwin Karl Rove John Lott Peter Morici Andrew Napolitano Liz Peek Kelly Wright's 'Beyond the Dream' On Newtown anniversary, America's mental health system still a mess By Dr. Keith AblowPublished December 12, 2013 FoxNews.com Investigators release report on Sandy Hook school shooting Recounting the Newtown tragedy. Gun control advocates politicizing Newtown tragedy? It is nearly one year since 20-year-old Adam Lanza killed 20 children and 7 adults on December 14, 2012 at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. We now know that Lanza, like mass shooters James Holmes in Aurora, Colorado and Jared Loughner near Tucson, Arizona and Aaron Alexis at the Washington Navy Yard and Seung Hui Cho at Virginia Tech was severely mentally ill.  We also know that Virginia state senator Creigh Deeds was stabbed repeatedly by his son, who later shot himself in the head, just hours after being discharged from an emergency room, where he had complained of severe psychiatric symptoms. We have a dramatic insufficiency of inpatient psychiatry units. Lanza, who was diagnosed with Asperger Sydrome, but who may well have merited other diagnoses, was obsessed with the topic of mass murder, played violent video games (including one about school shootings) and lived in the basement of his mother’s home, with the windows covered with black trash bags. According to official reports, his mother, who allowed him to learn how to shoot a firearm and whom he killed by shooting her in the head, had communicated with him only by email for the three months prior to her death, even though the two lived together. I wish that I could say that the year since Adam Lanza’s horrific acts has been one during which gun control advocates have realized their anti-gun agenda misses the point: Firearms aren’t the responsible variable in mass killings; untreated or poorly treated mental illness is. The worst episode of school violence ever, back in 1927, took the lives of 45 children and adults in Bath, Michigan and involved no gun.  Moreover, shooting victims don’t come close to the body count from untreated mental illness in the United States.  There are tens of thousands of suicides in the United States every year. The rate of suicide has risen at least 15 percent in the last ten years.  Suicide is now the number one cause of injury-related death in the United States. And suicide surpassed combat deaths in the U.S. military during 2012. I wish that I could say that the year since Adam Lanza’s horrific acts has been one in which the Surgeon General declared war on mental illness.  After all, the Obama administration is to be commended for issuing the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act, which seeks to prohibit insurers from specifically withholding mental health care services. And it is an important gesture that Vice President Biden announced funding of $100 million headed for community mental health centers and increasing access to care.  But while that legislation may provide some limited, increased access to care, it doesn’t address the massive problems with mental health care in America. The mismanagement of mental health care relates to much more than putting it on par with managed care for diabetes -- which is no panacea, by the way.  We have a dramatic insufficiency of inpatient psychiatry units. And even if you build more, we restrict access to those units to patients who are actively suicidal or homicidal -- and just barely -- until someone on staff convinces them to say they won’t kill themselves or someone else. We haven’t done anything to meaningfully coordinate police departments and the courts with the gutted community mental health care system.  We continue to cram the level of expertise available to psychiatric patients down further and further -- often out of the reach of M.D.s, with those in need only being seen, for all intents and purposes, case workers or nurses. The Affordable Care Act (aka "ObamaCare") will make all of this worse, not better.  Hospitals and insurers will force doctors further from direct patient care, to save money.  The number of psychiatric patients these non-M.D. health care professionals try to triage and treat will increase dramatically -- without any new strategy to keep them safe and the public safe. So the most ominous cases may well slip through even bigger cracks. HMO insurers still remain the wolf at the chicken coop -- pretending to be dispensing managed “care” while having demonstrated they care mostly about giving as little psychiatric treatment as possible to their members. The most dramatic fact is not that there was a Newtown last year -- which was entirely preventable -- but that, with the blind eye we continue to turn to our shattered mental health care system, that there has not yet been another. Dr. Keith Ablow is a psychiatrist and member of the Fox News Medical A-Team. Dr. Ablow can be reached at info@keithablow.com. Dr. Keith Ablow   Print   Email   Share   Comments Recommend Tweet Share This Article View Article You must login to comment. View Article Advertisement Follow Fox News Opinion Get Our Free Newsletter Newsletter Signup   Trending in Opinion 1 Teacher tells 6-year-old 'Jesus is not allowed in school' 2 The sad truth about America and Iraq 3 Speaker Boehner, why won't you help us get to bottom of the Benghazi nightmare? 4 A message for Christians about America's health care crisis (hint: it's much, much bigger than you think) 5 Exposing the world's great lie about ObamaCare and socialized medicine See all trends › Investing Investing › Will the Fed finish tapering in 2014? My bullish case for QuickLogic Cisco and IBM are my favorite mega-cap tech stocks: Leclerc Fox Nation The Quiet Fury of Robert Gates January 07, 2014 GRETA: Mr. President, Use Your Own Money to Give Your Wife a Lavish Birthday Present January 07, 2014 Brit Hume's AWESOME Takedown of Obama: The Jobless Benefits Push Is an Admission of Your Own Failure January 07, 2014 Phillips: Time to Surrender the 50-Year War on Poverty January 07, 2014 Former Guantanamo Detainee Implicated in Benghazi Attack January 07, 2014 Advertisement Also on the web Stay Frugal With Food Buying Clubs -- Savings Experiment Extending the Battery Life of Your Gadgets -- Savings Experiment A Polar Vortex Is Nothing Until You Have To Work Outside After Market: Stocks Rise Broadly; S&P Posts First Gain of 2014 Say 'No Cheese!' Kraft Warns of Velveeta Shortage Fisher Sees New Housing Bubble Signs, Warns of MBS Buys IMF: Beware Unwinding of C-Bank Stimulus Euro Zone Business Activity Higher in September Venezuela lacked good faith in ConocoPhillips seizure - World Bank UK consumer price inflation falls as forecast in July 16 Presumed FARC guerrillas surrender to Colombian army United season takes another stumble Panama Canal contractors seek $400 mn advance Experts discover China's most ancient mathematics document Japanese foreign minister begins official visit to Spain Sections Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports Weather Shows A Healthy You & Carol Alt America's News HQ America's Newsroom Cavuto Fox Files Fox News Sunday Fox & Friends First Fox & Friends Fox & Friends Weekend Geraldo at Large Greta Hannity Happening Now Huckabee   Justice with Judge Jeanine Media Buzz Red Eye w/ Gutfeld Shepard Smith Reporting Special Report Specials The Cost of Freedom The Five The Journal Editorial Report The Kelly File The O' Reilly Factor The Real Story War Stories Tools Live Video Trending uReport Newsletters Alerts Blogs Mobile Podcasts Radio Fox News Store Apps & Downloads About Careers College Students Fox Around the World Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Contact Us Email Newsroom FAQ Media Relations Follow   Facebook   Twitter   Google+   LinkedIn   RSS   Newsletters This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 
