Why Americans cannot detach from what's happening in Iraq | Fox News
 Fox News Digital Network   Fox News   Fox Business   uReport   Fox News Radio   Fox News Latino   Fox Nation   Fox News Insider Login Account You're logged in as   Profile Logout Search Site Listen to Fox News Radio Live › On Air Now › On Air Personalities ›   Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports On Air Previous Slide Next Slide Opinion Home Michael Goodwin Karl Rove John Lott Peter Morici Andrew Napolitano Liz Peek Kelly Wright's 'Beyond the Dream' Why Americans cannot detach from what's happening in Iraq By Lt. Col. Tony Shaffer (ret.)Published January 06, 2014 FoxNews.com “The clever combatant imposes his will on the enemy, but does not allow the enemy's will to be imposed on him” -- Sun Tzu When it comes to warfare, our president is not gifted. It is clear that Al Qaeda is not “on the run” as put forth by the White House, and the entirety of the Obama administration, in the months and days leading up to the November 2012 election.   It was not true then and the evidence of the falsehood is now more evident than ever. Our allies don’t understand it; and our adversaries benefit from it. We now have proof that the bulk Obama administration’s foreign policy is failing – badly. We now have proof that the bulk Obama administration’s foreign policy is failing – badly.  The Chinese are willing to take aggressive, destabilizing actions by insinuating new “security zones” in the Pacific and fear no negative reaction from the U.S.  The Russians continue to increase their dominance over the former states of the Warsaw Pac and the Middle East and have no concern about our response.   The Libya conflict was neither “quick nor kinetic” military conflict (taking nearly a year to oust Mummar Qaddafi), and instead we witness the murder of a sitting U.S. ambassador and three other Americans in an Al Qaeda attack.  Egypt and its people remain completely baffled by the Obama administration’s support for the Muslim Brotherhood – an entity (the Egyptians) has deemed a “terrorist organization”.  We have a complete chaos in Syria where the Obama White House has supported Al Qaeda linked militia – which brings me to Iraq. Let me be clear – I am in the camp that judged our 2003 invasion of Iraq to be unjustified and ill-conceived.  But, as General Colin Powell famously said “you break it, you own it” – well – we broke it and we were in the process of helping fix it when President Obama decided to abandon the mission of helping Iraq transition into a representative democracy in August 2010. We now have Al Qaeda-backed militia take control of Fallujah -- this is a major setback to both Iraq’s continued stability and prosperity as well as a signal that the region is moving toward expanded civil and international unrest.   While the Iraqi government claims it will re-take Fallujah “in a matter of days” the situation will not improve and we’ll see more Al Qaeda  elements taking control of parts of Iraq. The expanded instability of Iraq is based on Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri Maliki’s support  for the Iranians (and the Shia Muslims) and continued isolation and marginalization of Sunni Muslim groups has resulted in the continued destabilization of Iraq.   What we, the U.S. left, in 2010, as a nascent democracy is slowly devolving into a religious theocracy, and in doing so moving more and more toward civil war. The situation in Iraq mirrors  that of Egypt before the removal of President Morsi.  During Morsi’s year in office he went about instilling his political allies in all offices of government, and marginalizing all others for the purpose of a permanent Muslim Brotherhood controlled government – this is what Maliki now seeks: to instill permanently Shia Muslim control of Iraq.  This White House has supported both of these leaders – and in doing so gone against our own American values of defending democracy.  Further, the support for these leaders has resulted in a demonstrative destabilization of both nations. But unlike Egypt, in Iraq we had the option to have and maintain a military and diplomatic presence  – we had the option to remain involved in helping that nation move into a tradition of democracy.  However, our premature departure from Iraq, driven by this White House, has allowed for President Maliki to become radicalized to the point that his own actions supporting the Iranians (Shia) have embolden pro-Al Qaeda militants and given them the upper hand and left President Obama with zero influence or options; in other words, there is no way for President Obama to “impose his will”  on our enemies. Had we remained, at least for a few more election cycles, it is likely that the Iraqi democracy would have matured and become more robust  (I will not say stable – as any democracy, done well, will maintain a degree of friction between parties and groups). There is no doubt that had we had a close relationship – and continued military presence, that Iraq would not have been allowed to allow Iran to use its airspace, and therefore become the key rallying point for the Shia uprising (and pro-Al Qaeda success): Ok – you ask – why does this matter to us? Most Iraqis did not want us there to begin with.  While I feel the original invasion was not justified, we cannot now, after we created the situation, afford to be disengaged and detached from these actions for two reasons.   First – for better or worse: oil.  While we as a nation are becoming more and more energy independent, our allies and competitors depend on Middle Eastern oil – we must be aware, and involved in this, to defend our own interest, even if we don’t need the oil. Second – terrorist groups will continue to re-generate and seek to attack the homeland.  The Global War on Terror is not done – it has transitioned.  And it is al Qaeda’s franchises (such as this example in Iraq) are growing strong – with the intent to subvert our allies, and, eventually, be able to project attacks back into the U.S. homeland. This is not a new problem – but it is getting worse.   Instead of dealing realistically with threats we face, White House and Pentagon leadership spend time on “science fictionalized” threats.   In military institutions, even with the Syria crisis at hand, they were not permitted to conduct military exercises regarding Syria – having to “invent” scenarios as to not offend politicians and their bizarre sensibilities.   We are not even permitted to look directly at the adversaries we face – and the result of which is the chaos we now see as the product of our foreign policy; we no longer have a “reality” based threat understanding.   There are real issues we need to examine and develop strategies to face them directly – at this point, the Obama administration has not, and there is no indication that it will have a cohesive foreign policy anytime soon.   This has to be fixed – and it is in our interest to work directly to support those nations who are attempting to transition and establish a tradition of democracy is something we must do.   Iraq may be too far gone – due to neglect by this White House – that does not mean we can afford to sit on the sidelines and simply “lead from behind” as we watch our friends and allies slide into chaos.   Lt. Col. Tony Shaffer (ret.) is a CIA trained former senior intelligence officer and the New York Times bestselling author of Operation " Dark Heart: Spycraft an Special Operations on the Frontlines of Afghanistan – And The Path to Victory. "  His latest book is  The Last Line . He is a senior fellow with both the London Center for Policy Research and the Center for Advanced Defense Studies. The opinions reflected here are those solely of Lt. Col. Shaffer -- and are not the opinion of the London Center for Policy Research (LCPR), the Center for Advanced Defense Studies (CADS) or of any other group or organization with which Lt. Col. Shaffer is affiliated.   Print   Email   Share   Comments Recommend Tweet Share This Article View Article You must login to comment. View Article Advertisement Follow Fox News Opinion Get Our Free Newsletter Newsletter Signup   Trending in Opinion 1 Why most Americans believe the US economy is poor (and they're right) 2 Portion control -- how the government plans to dictate what's on your dinner table in 2014 3 Lawmakers accuse VA of disrespecting Christians 4 NSA spying -- will Obama lead or punt to courts, Congress and harm the presidency? 5 Exposing the world's great lie about ObamaCare and socialized medicine See all trends › Investing Investing › Morning Business Outlook: 1/7/14 Why I’m long the S&P 500, short bonds in 2014 Think Twitter is a Good Short? Maybe Not Fox Nation Brit Hume's AWESOME Takedown of Obama: The Jobless Benefits Push Is an Admission of Your Own Failure January 07, 2014 GRETA: Mr. President, Use Your Own Money to Give Your Wife a Lavish Birthday Present January 07, 2014 Rolling Stone Urging Millennials to Fight for Communism? January 07, 2014 POWERLINE: RACHEL MADDOW IS CRAZY, TOO January 07, 2014 She Chose Home & Family Over Hollywood January 07, 2014 Advertisement Also on the web Stay Frugal With Food Buying Clubs -- Savings Experiment Extending the Battery Life of Your Gadgets -- Savings Experiment U.S. Senate Delays Vote on Jobless Bill JPMorgan Settles Madoff Fraud Claims for $1.7 Billion Money Minute: Extreme Cold Grounds Flights; Heat, Food Bills Set to Soar Fisher Sees New Housing Bubble Signs, Warns of MBS Buys IMF: Beware Unwinding of C-Bank Stimulus Euro Zone Business Activity Higher in September Venezuela lacked good faith in ConocoPhillips seizure - World Bank UK consumer price inflation falls as forecast in July India successfully tests Prithvi II missile Senate confirms Yellen as next Fed chief Walcott injury hard pill to swallow Freezing Cold In United States Fuels Hike In Global Oil Prices Amid Grim, Rio's 'Eco-Boats' Clean Up Olympic Waters Sections Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports Weather Shows A Healthy You & Carol Alt America's News HQ America's Newsroom Cavuto Fox Files Fox News Sunday Fox & Friends First Fox & Friends Fox & Friends Weekend Geraldo at Large Greta Hannity Happening Now Huckabee   Justice with Judge Jeanine Media Buzz Red Eye w/ Gutfeld Shepard Smith Reporting Special Report Specials The Cost of Freedom The Five The Journal Editorial Report The Kelly File The O' Reilly Factor The Real Story War Stories Tools Live Video Trending uReport Newsletters Alerts Blogs Mobile Podcasts Radio Fox News Store Apps & Downloads About Careers College Students Fox Around the World Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Contact Us Email Newsroom FAQ Media Relations Follow   Facebook   Twitter   Google+   LinkedIn   RSS   Newsletters This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 
