The truth hurts: Why we need to hear from Gates on Obama's missteps | Fox News
 Fox News Digital Network   Fox News   Fox Business   uReport   Fox News Radio   Fox News Latino   Fox Nation   Fox News Insider Login Account You're logged in as   Profile Logout Search Site Listen to Fox News Radio Live › On Air Now › On Air Personalities ›   Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports On Air Previous Slide Next Slide Opinion Home Michael Goodwin Karl Rove John Lott Peter Morici Andrew Napolitano Liz Peek Kelly Wright's 'Beyond the Dream' The truth hurts: Why we need to hear from Gates on Obama's missteps By Richard GrenellPublished January 08, 2014 FoxNews.com Gates throws the book at Obama Robert Gates slams Obama Cabinet in new tell-all The new Bob Gates book is a serious warning to the Obama White House and future occupants that playing politics with national security issues is not only bad for America but dangerous for the world. If you wonder why the Middle East’s Arab Spring has turned into the Islamic Awakening, look no further than a White House foreign policy team focused on politics. Gates book is also a stern rebuke of Congress and the men and women running for office that their self-interest and self-preservation is tearing down our system. Gates had a front row seat to America’s wars in Afghanistan and Iraq by being appointed Secretary of Defense in 2006 by President George W. Bush and then re-appointed in 2011 by President Obama. Gates shows us that Obama is the first American president to put his political advisers in charge of U.S. national security issues. And it hasn’t been good. While Bush and Obama had dramatically different policy positions, Gates seamlessly served both presidents.  His new book, to be released Tuesday, “Duty: Memoirs of a Secretary at War,” cannot be dismissed as a partisan attack. The book is filled with juicy insights about the inner workings of Washington at a time of war. Excerpts have Gates giving his raw opinions on Congress, President Obama, Vice President Biden, White House staffers and Hillary Clinton. Gates is extremely critical of President Obama’s leadership style and bemoans how the commander-in-chief brought politics into most every national security decision. Gates even suggests that Obama didn’t believe in his own Afghanistan policy despite campaigning on it. We’ve seen Obama’s political self-interest play out on the foreign stages of Libya, Syria, Iran and Egypt.  Gates’ glimpse into the Obama White House helps us understand why the president made the Syria redline pronouncement just weeks before his re-election, why the Obama team failed to get a status of forces agreement with Iraq and why they are now weakening Iran resolutions to find a nuclear deal, any deal, with the Islamic Republic.  Gates shows us that Obama is the first American president to put his political advisers in charge of U.S. national security issues. And it hasn’t been good. In fact, Obama’s “pivot” to China also rings of a short-term temporary political move designed to distract the easily distractible Washington press corps -- a campaign political event designed by campaign political operatives that was wildly successful. China continues to bully the region and Obama has already pivoted elsewhere. But for anyone who thinks the Obama team just inherited wars and was simply trying to manage the current crisis, Gates makes clear that the Obama team has been in charge of every national security issue America has faced for the last five years. Gates criticizes the Obama White House for its simplification of the wars and over reliance on dialogue to win a war. Gates also admits that Obama, from the moment he entered the White House in 2009, was determined to win reelection. It was always his ultimate goal.  The Obama “White House was by far the most centralized and controlling in national security of any I had seen since Richard Nixon and Henry Kissinger ruled the roost,” Gates writes. He goes on to the call Obama White House “controlling” and determined “to take credit for every good thing that happened while giving none to the career folks in the trenches who had actually done the work.” Gates contrasts the Obama White House with the Bush White House and says “I don't recall Bush ever discussing domestic politics -- apart from congressional opposition -- as a consideration in decisions he made during my time with him…” Gates’ harsh words for Congress as “uncivil, incompetent at fulfilling their basic constitutional responsibilities (such as timely appropriations), micromanagerial, parochial, hypocritical, egotistical, thin-skinned and prone to put self (and re-election) before country” has rankled some on Capitol Hill. Senator Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) quickly tweeted: ‏"@JeffFlake Re Gates book. Extraordinarily bad timing, and form, if you ask me." Gates says he was so frustrated by Congressional hearings for their “kangaroo-court environment” and politicians for their grandstanding “especially when cameras were around” that he dreamed of dramatically quitting with this line: “I may be the secretary of defense, but I am also an American citizen, and there is no son of a bitch in the world who can talk to me like that. I quit. Find somebody else.” But Gates also admits that he had an easier road than other Bush or Obama officials.  In a refreshing rare admission from a Washington insider, Gates says, “Throughout my tenure at the Pentagon, under both President George W. Bush and President Barack Obama, I was, in personal terms, treated better by the White House, Congress and the press for longer than almost anyone I could remember in a senior U.S. government job.” Gates also gives some important facts about a few other people wanting to become the next occupant of 1600 Pennsylvania. Hillary Clinton, he says, admitted in a private moment that she played politics with the U.S. military in order to stake out a better political position for her presidential bid. The shocking admission from the former Secretary of State had been speculated about but her aides dismissed it as nonsense. Gates sets the record straight. The revelation that Hillary, too, was so self-serving that she was willing to use the U.S. military for her personal political gains is sure to be a problem for her if she chooses to run for president. Gates also flatly says Vice President Joe Biden “has been wrong on nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four decades.” I hope the Washington media reads this book. It’s a clear warning to them, too, that they have a lot of catching up to do to correct the phony tales they’ve been telling. Richard Grenell is a  Fox News Contributor and fellow with The Project To Restore America . He served as the spokesman for four U.S. Ambassadors to the U.N. including John Negroponte, John Danforth, John Bolton and Zalmay Khalilzad.  He currently writes from Los Angeles where his pieces can be seen at www.richardgrenell.com . Follow him on Twitter @RichardGrenell . Richard Grenell   Print   Email   Share   Comments Recommend Tweet Share This Article View Article You must login to comment. View Article Advertisement Follow Fox News Opinion Get Our Free Newsletter Newsletter Signup   Trending in Opinion 1 Inside the mind of Dennis Rodman 2 Spying on Congress 3 Obama as derelict as commander in chief -- why Bob Gates' revelations ring true 4 Friday’s jobs report expected to indicate economy not improving 5 The truth hurts: Why we need to hear from Gates on Obama's missteps See all trends › Investing Investing › Concerns of a looming cyber attack on the U.S. economy Violence Threatens Iraq's Oil-Fueled Comeback Story My bullish case for QuickLogic Fox Nation Obama Nominates Cop Killer Advocate to Head DOJ Civil Rights Division January 08, 2014 Mark Levin Eviscerates Lib Argument About Framers, Slavery, and the Constitution January 08, 2014 Darrell Issa Warns Sebelius of Possible Congressional Perjury Charges January 08, 2014 White House Circles the Wagons After Gates Drops Bombshells January 08, 2014 Obama as Derelict Commander-in-Chief -- Why Gates' Revelations Ring True January 08, 2014 Advertisement Also on the web Stay Frugal With Food Buying Clubs -- Savings Experiment Extending the Battery Life of Your Gadgets -- Savings Experiment Does America Need Immigrants For Low-Skilled Work? 5 Situations When It's Smart to Splurge Food, Beverage Companies Slash Calories in Obesity Fight Fisher Sees New Housing Bubble Signs, Warns of MBS Buys IMF: Beware Unwinding of C-Bank Stimulus Euro Zone Business Activity Higher in September Venezuela lacked good faith in ConocoPhillips seizure - World Bank UK consumer price inflation falls as forecast in July At least 9 dead in fire on train in India Bolivian President Evo Morales Urges International Legalization Of Coca Leaf Is 2014 The Year For Immigration Reform? Republicans, Chamber of Commerce Spar Chris Smalling apologizes for costume United player apologizes for 'insensitive' costume Sections Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports Weather Shows A Healthy You & Carol Alt America's News HQ America's Newsroom Cavuto Fox Files Fox News Sunday Fox & Friends First Fox & Friends Fox & Friends Weekend Geraldo at Large Greta Hannity Happening Now Huckabee   Justice with Judge Jeanine Media Buzz Red Eye w/ Gutfeld Shepard Smith Reporting Special Report Specials The Cost of Freedom The Five The Journal Editorial Report The Kelly File The O' Reilly Factor The Real Story War Stories Tools Live Video Trending uReport Newsletters Alerts Blogs Mobile Podcasts Radio Fox News Store Apps & Downloads About Careers College Students Fox Around the World Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Contact Us Email Newsroom FAQ Media Relations Follow   Facebook   Twitter   Google+   LinkedIn   RSS   Newsletters This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 
