Gingrich: Democrats Want to Impose 'Secular-Socialist Machine' | Fox News
 Menu FoxNews.com Politics Search Search Sign in to comment! Politics Home Executive Senate House of Representatives Defense Judiciary Scandals POLITICS Gingrich: Democrats Want to Impose 'Secular-Socialist Machine' Published May 16, 2010 FoxNews.com Facebook 0 Twitter 0 LinkedIn 0 ADVERTISEMENT Democrats are trying to impose a "secular-socialist machine" rejected by most Americans, an unapologetic Newt Gingrich said Sunday. The former House speaker described Democrats as "secular" because those in power in government are beset by a "relentless anti-religious bias"; "socialist" because the Obama administration wants to determine salaries, own corporations and provide health care; and a "machine" because the agenda is being pushed robotically without concern for people standing in the way. "When you have a pay czar in the White House who thinks that they have enough power and knowledge to set the salaries for hundreds of people in dozens of companies, in an industry they've never been in -- I mean, if that's not socialist -- if the government is the largest owner of General Motors and Chrysler, the largest funder of AIG -- they just nationalized student loans so they're now all 100 percent government program," Gingrich told "Fox News Sunday." "If you can get $757 billion out of the Congress and no elected official has even read the bill, that's the behavior of a Chicago-style machine," Gingrich added. Gingrich, who just published the explosive book “To Save America,” cited polls showing greater than 50 percent of Americans want to repeal the health care law. He also noted that a federal judge has declared the National Day of Prayer unconstitutional, "which if it weren't so serious it would be laughable." Gingrich described the case of two Connecticut lawmakers who have introduced legislation that would keep Catholics from working in emergency rooms because of their objections to performing certain procedures. Gingrich said that he stands by his argument that the "secular-socialist machine" represents as great a threat to America as Nazi Germany or the Soviet Union, not in the sense of the immorality of those deadly regimes, but as a "threat to our way of life." "The degree to which the secular-socialist left represents a fundamental replacement of America, a very different world view, a very different outcome, I think is a very serious threat to our way of life. Echoing Republican arguments of the 1980s, Gingrich also is calling for the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Education to be abolished and replaced. He said it's impossible to reform an agency that has spent two generations recruiting antibusiness, anticommercial bureaucrats. On Social Security, Gingrich said he wants people to be able to manage their own accounts based on their personal contributions to the fund. Returning to the question of whether the stock market is a safe enough place to house retirement investments given recent volatility, Gingrich said someone retiring today who has been investing for 30 years is ahead of the current "transfer system." "When Social Security paid its first check, there were 42 taxpayers for every recipient. When my grandchildren, who are eight and 10, get to be Social Security recipients, there may well be two taxpayers for every recipient. You can't sustain that," he said. Advertisement Politics Videos Did Robert Gates 'kiss and tell' in controversial memoir? Empathy gap? Sen. Ayotte addresses challenges facing GOP Senate debates measure to extend long-term jobless benefits Bias Bash: Christie takes on bridge-closing scandal Political implications of New Jersey lane-closure scandal Trending in Politics 1 Robert Gates’ Bombshell Book: Tell-all a betrayal of the president 2 Christie apologizes over lane closures, fires top aide 3 Republicans call for removal of Obama supporter leading IRS targeting probe 4 Strange bedfellows: White House reaches out to Sen. Paul for economy meeting 5 Rubio: Gates' memoir shows Obama has 'little trust' in military commanders Advertisement Fox NewsPolitics Politics Home Executive Senate House of Representatives Defense Judiciary Scandals Presidential Approval Approve 51% Disapprove 47% More details Congressional Approval Approve 13% Disapprove 75% More details FoxNews.com Back to Top ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. All market data delayed 20 minutes. Privacy - Terms - FAQ 
