Nevada Voters Say Reid's Name Checked for Them on Touch-Screen Ballots | Fox News
 Menu FoxNews.com Politics Search Search Sign in to comment! Politics Home Executive Senate House of Representatives Defense Judiciary Scandals ELECTIONS Nevada Voters Say Reid's Name Checked for Them on Touch-Screen Ballots Published October 26, 2010 FoxNews.com Facebook 0 Twitter 0 LinkedIn 0 ADVERTISEMENT Voters in one Nevada city are complaining that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's name was already checked when they went to cast their ballots in early voting Monday, according to Fox5Vegas.com.  Voters in Boulder City said they were trying to vote for Republican nominee Sharron Angle, but that Reid's name was checked when they got to the electronic voting machines.  "Something's not right," voter Joyce Ferrara told the network, saying several people reported the same problem. "One person that's a fluke. Two, that's strange. But several within a five-minute period of time -- that's wrong."  A Clark County voting official said highly sensitive touch-screens may be to blame and that fraud is not the issue.  Click here to read more at Fox5Vegas.com. Advertisement Politics Videos Did Obama choose politics over the American troops? Maureen Faulkner: Justice Dept. nomination is a 'disgrace' Obama doing damage control after Robert Gates' criticisms Gen. Wesley Clark reacts to fallout over Robert Gates claims Former Gitmo detainee confirmed suspect in Benghazi attack Trending in Politics 1 Christie denies involvement in bridge lane closures, says was 'misled' 2 Chamber of Commerce vows to fight ObamaCare employer mandate in 2014 3 White House blames 'polar vortex' on global warming in blog post 4 Taxpayers chip in on birthday gift for first lady 5 Ailes chides cable news rivals Advertisement Fox NewsPolitics Politics Home Executive Senate House of Representatives Defense Judiciary Scandals Presidential Approval Approve 51% Disapprove 47% More details Congressional Approval Approve 13% Disapprove 75% More details FoxNews.com Back to Top ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. All market data delayed 20 minutes. Privacy - Terms - FAQ 
