Newlywed Murder Trial: Victim Allegedly Blindfolded | Video - ABC News
 Now Typhoon Haiyan • Larry Birkhead • Amy Robach • iPad Mini • 1 World Trade Center • Elizabeth Banks Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Newlywed Murder Trial: Victim Allegedly Blindfolded Jordan Linn Graham is accused of pushing her husband of eight days off a cliff. 03:38 | 11/11/2013 Related Links: Watch: Alleged Newlywed Killer Sent E-Mail to Cover Crime, Say Police Watch: Bride Charged for Allegedly Pushing Husband Off Cliff Share: Transcript for Newlywed Murder Trial: Victim Allegedly Blindfolded We turn now to the latest on the montana newly wed charged with pushing her husband off a cliff eight days after their windowing. Talk of a new and more shocking allegation. Ryan owens is tracking the... See More We turn now to the latest on the montana newly wed charged with pushing her husband off a cliff eight days after their windowing. Talk of a new and more shocking allegation. Ryan owens is tracking the case. Reporter: Did newly wed jordan graham blindfold her young husband, cody johnson, before shoving him off a cliff a mere eight days after their wedding? That's the explosive allegation her defense attorney is claiming prosecutors may make during her murder trial scheduled to start next month. Her attorney wrist, premeditation may be proved because the government now believes jordan placed a blindfold on cody before pushing him off the ledge sflp the most important part of the blindfold is the context that it got on cody's face, if it was there. Reporter: She pled not guilty to murdering johnson. Saying when he fell to his death in july, it was an accident. But prosecutors allege she shoved her new husband because she didn't love him and then repeatedly lied to cover her crime. I never, ever expected her to be capable of hurting someone to that degree. He would have given her anything. Reporter: For the first time, her attorney is saying here's what happened. In her own words. From her recorded interview with authorities. He said, I could do this with a blindfold on. He said, I could just put it on, take a step, but I worldn't even fall. She said her husband tried to grab for her arm or her jacket. I said no. I said I am not going to let this happen to me. I'm going defend myself. Soy kind of said, let go. And I pushed. And he went over. &#9834; Everyone wants a safe place to fall &#9834; Reporter: All just days after the seemingly happy couple danced to that as their first song. For "good morning america," ryan owens, abc news, dallas. Let's get more from chief legal affairs anchor dan abrams. This blindfolding seems like a big deal. Why are we hearing from the the defense? The prosecution is not convinced it was a part of the case. The defense is saying they're considering this possibility. We want to prevent them from admitting evidence on this if it turns out to be the case. If it does this is a fundamental game-changer for the case. You're going from someone who they seemed to be taking her word for it so to some degree. But if this was a case where she blindfolded him, the real possibility of premeditation and a fundamental change in the case. A difference in accounts from the defense and the fbi agents. That is the most important thing we're getting. She's saying, I never said what they say I said. I never said he turned his back and I pushed him. She is now saying, that he was grabbing her arm and to effectively get away from him, she pushed. That is the difference between murder and the possibility of not a crime at all. That's why this seems like plea for some kind of a deal. The defense is going after the prosecution for everything. It's not fair. This isn't tear. This isn't fair. The reality is, it seems they're looking for a plea. They're saying, we can't effectively plead from where the prosecution has left us. Dan abrams, thank you. This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate. Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 9:00 AM ET GMA Live remind me 9:15 AM ET News Pop remind me 9:30 AM ET Opening Bell remind me 10:00 AM ET News Pop remind me 10:30 AM ET Headlines & Weather remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS shows: GMA GMA LIVE! GMA Recipes GMA Concert Series World News World News with David Muir Nightline 20/20 In the Spotlight With Robin Roberts Diane Sawyer Specials Primetime This Week What Would You Do? World News Now Second Tour ABC News Now Playlist: GMA 11/12/13 GMA 11/11/13 GMA 11/10/13 GMA 11/09/13 GMA 11/08/13 GMA 11/07/13 Home > Video > GMA > GMA 11/11/13 Watch the Full Episode GMA 11/11: Race Against Time to Save Typhoon Survivors Stocks Hit Record Highs, Gas Prices Hit 2-Year Low; Head Keeper Killed at Big Cat Sanctuary Race Against Time to Save Typhoon Survivors Race Against Time to Save Typhoon Survivors Emergency teams in the Philippines race to help in the most critical time after the typhoon struck. John Kerry Still Pushing for Iran Nuke Deal After Breakdown John Kerry Still Pushing for Iran Nuke Deal After Breakdown ABC News' Martha Raddatz discusses the diplomatic effort to freeze Iran's nuclear program. Richie Incognito Says Actions Came From 'Place of Love' Richie Incognito Says Actions Came From 'Place of Love' ESPN's Adam Schefter discusses the first interview with suspended Dolphins' player. Stocks Hit Record Highs, Gas Prices Hit 2-Year Low Stocks Hit Record Highs, Gas Prices Hit 2-Year Low Betty Liu discusses good economic news and how it affects you. Head Keeper Killed at Big Cat Sanctuary Head Keeper Killed at Big Cat Sanctuary Investigators try to figure out how a worker became a victim at an Oregon Wildcat sanctuary. Students Ward off Intruder With Gun, Face Expulsion Students Ward off Intruder With Gun, Face Expulsion Two college seniors placed on indefinite probation after an incident at their apartment. Newlywed Murder Trial: Victim Allegedly Blindfolded Newlywed Murder Trial: Victim Allegedly Blindfolded Jordan Linn Graham is accused of pushing her husband of eight days off a cliff. Alexis MacNeill on Guilty Verdict: 'Such a Relief' Alexis MacNeill on Guilty Verdict: 'Such a Relief' MacNeill's father, Martin, was found guilty of murdering her mother six years ago. 1 of 2 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2013 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
