Brian Ross Investigates: White House-Backed Solar Panel Company Goes Bankrupt | Video - ABC News
 Now Monica Spear • Aaron Hernandez • Japan Tainted Food • Conjoined Whales • Honey Boo Boo • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Obama-Backed 'Green' Company Goes Bankrupt Brian Ross examines bankruptcy that some say could cost taxpayers $535 million. 02:51 | 09/01/2011 Related Links: GOP: Obama Loan Program 'Wasted' $535M Watch: Barack Obama Promises Job Creation Watch: Job Crisis in America: Searching for a Solution RELATED TOPICS: Barack Obama • White House • Government Accountability Office • Economic Growth Share: Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 9:00 AM ET GMA Live remind me 9:15 AM ET News Pop remind me 9:30 AM ET Opening Bell remind me 10:00 AM ET News Pop remind me 10:30 AM ET Headlines & Weather remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS sections: Most Popular U.S. World Politics Health Entertainment Tech Travel Money Brian Ross Investigates The Assets: Meet the Real People Digital Reports Digital Originals Extreme Video ABC News Audio Home > Video > Most Popular Jameis Winston Accuser's Lawyer Wants 'Heads to Roll' Jameis Winston Accuser's Lawyer Wants 'Heads to Roll' Pat Carroll, the lawyer for an FSU student who accused Winston of rape, says there will be a civil suit. Michelle Obama's Early Birthday Gift Michelle Obama's Early Birthday Gift The first lady will spend extra time in Hawaii as her husband and daughters return to Washington. 2004 Miss Venezuela, Ex Murdered 2004 Miss Venezuela, Ex Murdered Investigators are trying to determine who killed Monica Spear and her former husband. Jennifer Lawrence: Fat Criticism 'Should Be Illegal' Jennifer Lawrence: Fat Criticism 'Should Be Illegal' "Hunger Games" star tells Barbara Walters that criticisms about weight are perpetuated by the media. Outrage Over Alleged Fraudulent Disability Claims That Stem From 9/11 Tragedy Outrage Over Alleged Fraudulent Disability Claims That Stem From 9/11 Tragedy More than 100 New York City retired firefighters and police officers charged with fraud. Emails Link NJ Governor's Aide to Bridge Lane Closures Emails Link NJ Governor's Aide to Bridge Lane Closures Chris Christie appointee seemingly connected to political payback controversy. First Lady's South Africa 'Frowning' Photos Spark Buzz First Lady's South Africa 'Frowning' Photos Spark Buzz Michelle Obama appears to disapprove of her husband's socializing during Mandela memorial service. Chris Christie Replaces Appointee Amid Bridge Scandal Chris Christie Replaces Appointee Amid Bridge Scandal N.J. governor accepts resignation of Bill Baroni as controversial September lane closure is probed. Candace Cameron Bure a Proud 'Submissive' Wife Candace Cameron Bure a Proud 'Submissive' Wife Former "Full House" star Candace Cameron Bure reveals secret to marital happiness. Manhunt for Model Murderer Manhunt for Model Murderer Jomali Morales was found stabbed in a New York apartment building. 'Drink Up,' Michelle Obama Says on 'GMA' 'Drink Up,' Michelle Obama Says on 'GMA' The first lady kicked off a campaign to ask everyone to drink more water. 911 Calls Reveal New Details on Alleged FSU Rape 911 Calls Reveal New Details on Alleged FSU Rape Call made by friend of accuser shows details of alleged rape by quarterback Jameis Winston. Michelle Obama Promotes Health With Hip-Hop Michelle Obama Promotes Health With Hip-Hop The first lady appears in music video titled "Everybody," to inspire people to live healthier. First Lady Heckled by Gay Rights Advocate First Lady Heckled by Gay Rights Advocate Michelle Obama threatened to leave the fundraiser telling a protester only one of them could speak. Life Changing Ear Operation Helps a Little Boy Hear Life Changing Ear Operation Helps a Little Boy Hear For the first time 5-year-old Carson Rubin can hear thanks to Cochlear implants. 1 of 2 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
