Chris Christie: ‘I am not a bully’ — LOL
 Real Estate Rentals Cars Today's Paper Going Out Guide Find&Save Service Alley Home PostTV In PostTV Politics In Politics Congress Courts & Law The Fed Page Health Care Polling White House GovBeat Md. Politics Va. Politics D.C. Politics Blogs & Columns Obama to deliver speech on NSA reforms Jan. 17 Post Politics | David Nakamura Chris Christie, playing in traffic The Fix | Chris Cillizza ‘Revenge’: The week in one song The Monkey Cage | Christopher Federico Kentucky Session Preview: Rolling the dice GovBeat | Reid Wilson Majority in Congress are millionaires The Federal Eye | Josh Hicks Opinions In Opinions Toles Cartoons Telnaes Animations The Post's View Letters to the Editor Local Opinions Columnist Index Featured Blogs Gmail’s new feature -- e-mails from strangers! ComPost | Alexandra Petri Dems call GOP bluff on jobless benefits The Plum Line | Greg Sargent 6 humorous visuals on Chris Christie PostPartisan | Swati Sharma Wanted: Pro-jobs legislation Right Turn | Jennifer Rubin Local In Local D.C. Maryland Virginia Crime Education Obituaries Transportation Weather Blogs & Columns Blogs & Columns White House-moderated discussion on polar vortex, climate change Capital Weather Gang | Jason Samenow Tour dates: ‘Yeezus’ in Baltimore, Earl Sweatshirt at 9:30 Going Out Guide | Lavanya Ramanathan Virginia transportation projects to watch in 2014 Dr. Gridlock | Robert Thomson Sports In Sports Redskins/NFL Capitals/NHL Wizards/NBA Nationals/MLB D.C. United/Soccer Colleges AllMetSports Blogs & Columns Other Sports Blogs & Columns Five thoughts on Caps-Lightning. Capitals Insider | Katie Carrera London Fletcher gets a cake DC Sports Bog | Sarah Kogod Gruden’s growth impressed Allen The Insider | Mike Jones Nats sign Fontenot Nationals Journal | Adam Kilgore National In National Energy & Environment Health & Science Education National Security Investigations Innovations Know More Religion On Giving Corrections Blogs & Columns Peak TV: Forget about innovations. Innovations | Matt McFarland Circumcision less common in U.S. and parts of Europe Michelle Boorstein Misdemeanor charge in Maryville case She The People | Diana Reese World In World Africa The Americas Asia & Pacific Europe Middle East National Security War Zones Special Reports Columns & Blogs Blogs & Columns Image sums up South Sudan’s crisis WorldViews | Max Fisher Photos of Castro’s first appearance in months WorldViews | Max Fisher The 10 fastest-growing economies WorldViews | Max Fisher How Mideasterners think women should dress WorldViews | Max Fisher Business In Business Economy Industries Markets Policy & Regulation Know More World Business Capital Business On Leadership On Small Business On I.T. Blogs & Columns Countdown to the 21-Day Financial Fast The Color of Money | Michelle Singletary Why the U.S. labor force keeps shrinking Wonkblog | Brad Plumer Training a new generation of special agents On Leadership | Tom Fox Tech In Technology Innovation Green Technology The Switch Photo Galleries Blogs & Columns Want to find a great deal? It’s looking for you, too. Hayley Tsukayama Online porn viewing heated up during the polar vortex The Switch | Andrea Peterson How D-Wave’s quantum computers work The Switch | Timothy B. Lee Remember Livingsocial? Its CEO is abandoning ship. The Switch | Brian Fung Lifestyle In Lifestyle Advice Carolyn Hax Food Express Home & Garden Style Travel Weddings Wellness Magazine KidsPost On Parenting Blogs & Columns Pacman and Peso have returned from North Korea The Style Blog | Monica Hesse Jay Gruden is your average dude The Reliable Source | Emily Heil Entertainment In Entertainment Books Comics Going Out Guide Horoscopes Movies Museums Music Puzzles & Games Theater & Dance TV Blogs & Columns ‘I’ve finally made it!’: Stan Lee, the Hub team on new movie Comic Riffs | Michael Cavna Tour dates: ‘Yeezus’ in Baltimore, Earl Sweatshirt at 9:30 Going Out Guide | Lavanya Ramanathan Jobs In Jobs More Classifieds Cars Deals Real Estate Rentals Photos Blogs Discussions Find&Save Obituaries Archives Topics WP Wine Club WP BrandConnect PostPartisan Quick takes by the Post's opinion writers PostScript PostScript: Dionne and a leftward surge PostScript: Will and Obama’s overreach PostScript: Parker and what race is Santa anyway PostScript: Maddow and Bush’s legacy PostScript: Parker and talking-to-women points View all Tag Posts The Insiders The Insiders: Trouble for Christie is just getting started The Insiders: Gates should have waited The Insiders: Democrats must quit denying the political science of global warming The Insiders: Republicans, just say no to marijuana The Insiders: Is the president crowding the Pope? View all Tag Posts Archives Follow: More Chris Christie: ‘I am not a bully’ — LOL By Jonathan Capehart January 10 at 9:46 am More Comments Gov. Chris Christie at a Jan. 9 news conference. (Mel Evans/Associated Press) During his 107-minute me-me-mea culpa over the traffic fiasco that plunged his national political fortunes into chaos, Gov. Chris Christie said something that was LOL funny. It came in response to a question from NBC News’s Kelly O’Donnell: “Your critics say this reveals that you are a political bully, that your style is payback,” she asked the New Jersey Republican known for his love of rhetorical fisticuffs and penchant for retribution. “Are you? And does this compromise your ability to serve?” GOV. CHRISTIE: No, I’m not. Hey, listen, Kelly. Politics ain’t bean bag, okay? And everybody in the country who engages in politics knows that. On the other hand, that’s very, very different than saying that, you know, someone’s a bully. . . . I don’t hide my emotions from people. . . . Now, that has always made some people, as you know, uneasy. Some people like that style, some people don’t. And I’ve always — I think you asked me the question day after the election, are you willing to change your style in order to appeal to a broader audience? And I think I said no because I am who I am. But I am not a bully. Try telling that to Gail, the New Jersey caller who asked him if his children went to public school. “It’s none of your business,” Christie bluntly told her. Try telling that to Assemblywoman Valerie Vainieri Huttle. She questioned his use of state helicopters ( “Choppergate”) to go to his son’s baseball game and then a political dinner. “I mean she should really be embarrassed at what a jerk she is for saying something like that,” Christie said. And then there’s what happened to me on “Morning Joe” in 2012. Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy Christie: Jonathan, first of all, I used to be a prosecutor so I’m not going to be cross-examined by you this morning. Secondly. . . . JC: I’m having fun trying. Christie: And you’re going to lose so let’s just move on. JC: I would love for you to answer the question. . . .” The New York Times highlighted some of the governor’s other moments in petty last month. But addressing the callous e-mails about the misery inflicted by his aides on the people of Fort Lee, Christie told Kelly, “[T]he language used and the conduct displayed in those e-mails is unacceptable to me, and I will not tolerate it. But the best I can do is when I see stuff like that [is] to end it.” What’s that saying? Oh, yeah, do as I say, not as I do. LOL. Follow Jonathan on Twitter:  @Capehartj Also on PostPartisan Christie's bridge scandal shows what newspapers can do The Post Most 1 The best worst U.S. map ever 2 How to fight academic bigotry 3 How did Rand Paul's son end up on Medicaid? 4 'Girls' and 'Shameless': Despicableness is definitely an acquired taste 5 Chris Christie is not the victim 
