Scott Walker opposes government shutdown over Obamacare
 Real Estate Rentals Cars Today's Paper Going Out Guide Find&Save Service Alley Home PostTV In PostTV Politics In Politics Congress Courts & Law The Fed Page Health Care Polling White House GovBeat Md. Politics Va. Politics D.C. Politics Blogs & Columns Rubio, McCain: Gates should have waited to write his book Post Politics | Niraj Chokshi Sunday show roundup: All eyes on Christie, Gates The Fix | Niraj Chokshi Aaron Swartz died one year ago today The Monkey Cage | Henry Farrell By week’s end, half the states will have begun their 2014 sessions GovBeat | Niraj Chokshi Majority in Congress are millionaires The Federal Eye | Josh Hicks Opinions In Opinions Toles Cartoons Telnaes Animations The Post's View Letters to the Editor Local Opinions Columnist Index Featured Blogs Shia LaBeouf has retired! ComPost | Alexandra Petri Sunday Open Thread The Plum Line | Greg Sargent 6 humorous visuals on Chris Christie PostPartisan | Swati Sharma Sunday wrap Right Turn | Jennifer Rubin Local In Local D.C. Maryland Virginia Crime Education Obituaries Transportation Weather Blogs & Columns Blogs & Columns D.C.’s urban heat island effect and tips on how to be ‘weather-smart’ when it comes to the polar vortex Capital Weather Gang | Casey Capachi Free and Easy: Martin Luther King Jr. programs and Iyanla Vanzant Going Out Guide | Macy Freeman Virginia transportation projects to watch in 2014 Dr. Gridlock | Robert Thomson Sports In Sports Redskins/NFL Capitals/NHL Wizards/NBA Nationals/MLB D.C. United/Soccer Colleges AllMetSports Blogs & Columns Other Sports Blogs & Columns Miller continues mastery of Caps Capitals Insider | Katie Carrera London Fletcher gets a cake DC Sports Bog | Sarah Kogod Redskins say they never scheduled interviews with 49ers coordinators The Insider | Mark Maske Nationals, Strasburg avoid arbitration Nationals Journal | Adam Kilgore National In National Energy & Environment Health & Science Education National Security Investigations Innovations Know More Religion On Giving Corrections Blogs & Columns Peak TV: Forget about innovations. Innovations | Matt McFarland Circumcision less common in U.S. and parts of Europe Michelle Boorstein Yes, Greensboro Four pioneer Franklin McCain, you did plenty She The People | Mary C. Curtis World In World Africa The Americas Asia & Pacific Europe Middle East National Security War Zones Special Reports Columns & Blogs Blogs & Columns Image sums up South Sudan’s crisis WorldViews | Max Fisher Photos of Castro’s first appearance in months WorldViews | Max Fisher The 10 fastest-growing economies WorldViews | Max Fisher How Mideasterners think women should dress WorldViews | Max Fisher Business In Business Economy Industries Markets Policy & Regulation Know More World Business Capital Business On Leadership On Small Business On I.T. Blogs & Columns Countdown to the 21-Day Financial Fast The Color of Money | Michelle Singletary A few more thoughts on the young and Obamacare-less Wonkblog | Sarah Kliff Training a new generation of special agents On Leadership | Tom Fox Tech In Technology Innovation Green Technology The Switch Photo Galleries Blogs & Columns Neiman Marcus confirms data breach Hayley Tsukayama Reports of the PC’s death have been greatly exaggerated, readers argue The Switch | Andrea Peterson Cybercrime law used to prosecute Aaron Swartz remains intact The Switch | Andrea Peterson Neiman Marcus: We were hacked, too The Switch | Brian Fung Lifestyle In Lifestyle Advice Carolyn Hax Food Express Home & Garden Style Travel Weddings Wellness Magazine KidsPost On Parenting Blogs & Columns ‘Downton Abbey’ recap: An unthinkable act changes the tenor of the show The Style Blog | Joe Heim Terry McAuliffe’s low-key inaugural: cash bar, few celebs The Reliable Source | Rachel Weiner Entertainment In Entertainment Books Comics Going Out Guide Horoscopes Movies Museums Music Puzzles & Games Theater & Dance TV Blogs & Columns ‘I’ve finally made it!’: Stan Lee, the Hub team on new movie Comic Riffs | Michael Cavna Free and Easy: Martin Luther King Jr. programs and Iyanla Vanzant Going Out Guide | Macy Freeman Jobs In Jobs More Classifieds Cars Deals Real Estate Rentals Photos Blogs Discussions Find&Save Obituaries Archives Topics WP Wine Club WP BrandConnect Politics Congress Courts & Law The Fed Page Health Care Polling White House GovBeat Md. Politics Va. Politics D.C. Politics Post Politics Congress Boxer, Whitehouse announce new push on climate Fundraising roundup: Top GOP House recruit DeMaio raises $370K House Dems Mike McIntyre (N.C.), Carolyn McCarthy (N.Y.) to retire Boehner comments on Gates’s book House GOP leaders coach rank-and-file on discussing unemployment View all Tag Posts White House Obama to speak on NSA reforms Jan. 17, White House says Robert Gates: White House very suspicious of military White House picks first five economic ‘Promise Zones’ White House responds to Gates’s criticism of Biden Gates bashes Biden in memoir View all Tag Posts Campaign 2014 Gillespie will challenge Sen. Warner in Virginia Donohue: Chamber will oppose some tea party candidates GOP Rep. Paul Broun: Georgia Democrats need illegal immigrants to vote Cruz’s father backs Rep. Sessions’s tea party challenger Rep. Jim Gerlach (R-Pa.) won’t seek reelection View all Tag Posts Campaign 2016 O’Malley defends troubled Maryland health exchange New documents show extensive N.J. coverup The New Yorker sends up Christie’s traffic problem Priorities USA set to join 2016 fray with new leadership Rand Paul wants to repeal Iraq war resolution View all Tag Posts Obamacare House approves HealthCare.gov security bill Obama administration to replace top HealthCare.gov contractor Obama Administration seeks to un-block birth control mandate Another top official in charge of troubled HealthCare.gov rollout retires Poll: Support for Obamacare hits new low View all Tag Posts Archives Follow: More Scott Walker opposes government shutdown over Obamacare By Juliet Eilperin September 19, 2013 at 8:30 am More Comments In this June 28, 2013 file photo, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker speaks in his Capitol office in Madison, Wis. (AP Photo/Scott Bauer, File) Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker (R) has been an outspoken opponent of Obamacare, challenging its constitutionality in court and rejecting federal funds to expand Medicaid under the program. But that doesn't mean he backs the current House GOP strategy to risk shutting down the government over the issue. In an interview Friday, Walker said he has proven his commitment to standing in the way of the Affordable Care Act's implementation, having "done just about anything possible to alter that course." "I believe the Affordable Care Act is anything but affordable, and will have a negative impact on the economy of my state," he said, adding that he would have preferred for it to have been blocked by the Supreme Court. "But I don’t extend that to the point that we should shut down the government over it." "I support limited government," he added. "But I want the government left to work." There is a straightforward solution to address the current predicament, Walker suggested: put the question before the voters next year. "The way to resolve this is through candidates making the case in the 2014 election," he said. "They can make a case they’re going to come on in and put the power back in the hands of the people, not in the government." Will congressional Republicans heed Walker's advice, or will they continue to pursue their collision course with President Obama and Senate Democrats? Only the next couple of weeks will answer that question. Juliet Eilperin covers the White House for the Washington Post. She served as the Post's House of Representatives reporter from 1998-2004, covering the impeachment of Bill Clinton, lobbying, legislation, and five national congressional campaigns. Since 2004 she has been one of the country’s leading reporters covering the environment, reporting on science, policy and politics in areas including climate change, oceans, and air quality. She is the author of two books, "Fight Club Politics: How Partisanship is Poisoning the House of Representatives," and "Demon Fish: Travels Through the Hidden World of Sharks." Follow her on  Twitter. Also on Post Politics Boehner’s office to Obama: You’ll negotiate with Putin but not over debt ceiling? The Post Most 1 Golden Globe Awards complete coverage 2 No, we don't spend $1 trillion on welfare each year 3 Ashley Wagner named to Olympic team after fourth-place finish at U.S. championships 4 Second wave of health-insurance disruption affects small businesses 5 West Virginia water emergency nears fifth day, with no end in sight 
