Missouri Farm Bureau reconsiders Akin support | Fox News
 Menu FoxNews.com Politics Search Search Sign in to comment! Politics Home Executive Senate House of Representatives Defense Judiciary Scandals ELECTIONS Missouri Farm Bureau reconsiders Akin support Published August 31, 2012 Associated Press Facebook 0 Twitter 0 LinkedIn 0   ADVERTISEMENT JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. –  The Missouri Farm Bureau is reconsidering its endorsement of Republican Rep. Todd Akin for U.S. Senate because of comments he made about women being able to thwart pregnancy in cases of "legitimate rape," an organization spokesman said Friday. The move to reconsider an endorsement is unprecedented for the Missouri Farm Bureau, whose political action committee endorsed Akin over Democratic Sen. Claire McCaskill by a 99 percent vote just three weeks ago. "After polling the Missouri Farm Bureau county leaders, a majority believe the endorsement of Todd Akin for U.S. Senate should be reconsidered," said Farm Bureau spokesman Estil Fretwell, an adviser to the group's political arm. Fretwell said a new endorsement vote will come soon. Since it began making Senate endorsements in 1982, the Missouri Farm Bureau has always backed the Republican candidate. If the group drops its support of Akin, it does not appear likely that McCaskill would pick up the endorsement. Under the procedures discussed by political action committee chairmen, "if the endorsement is not made again (for Akin), then there would be no endorsement," Fretwell said. The loss of Farm Bureau support could cost Akin money. But a neutral stance by the Farm Bureau, with branches covering all Missouri counties, could have an even greater effect among rural voters. Akin has repeatedly apologized for his remarks while rebuffing calls to quit the race from top Republicans, including GOP presidential candidate Mitt Romney and the chairman of the Republican National Committee. Akin already has lost the financial backing of the National Republican Senatorial Committee and the conservative Crossroads group, which have dropped plans to air millions of dollars of ads in Missouri. The six-term congressman has sought to counteract that with an aggressive push for small-dollar donations online. He continues to draw support from some social conservatives and anti-abortion activists, including the Family Research Council and former Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee. Advertisement Politics Videos Gates explains how White House tackled 'domestic politics' Cable exclusive: Robert Gates on why he's critical of Obama Brit Hume reacts to new Benghazi developments Does Hillary Clinton really keep a political 'hit list'? The latest on 'Bridgegate' Trending in Politics 1 Virginia anti-sodomy bill could punish consenting teens 2 Leaked private comments reveal Israeli defense minister’s scorn for Kerry 3 White House pushes back another ObamaCare enrollment deadline 4 Benghazi Transcripts: Did WH overstate preparation for 9/11 anniversary? 5 Indian diplomat's lawyer asks judge to toss federal charges Advertisement Fox NewsPolitics Politics Home Executive Senate House of Representatives Defense Judiciary Scandals Presidential Approval Approve 51% Disapprove 47% More details Congressional Approval Approve 13% Disapprove 75% More details FoxNews.com Back to Top ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. All market data delayed 20 minutes. Privacy - Terms - FAQ 
