Apoplectic Skeptic
 Apoplectic Skeptic "After silence, that which expresses the inexpressible is music." — Aldous Huxley Info RSS Archive Mobile Random Ask Pages Hi... I'm Daniel My company My Studio Email Me Google+ Profile Facebook Profile @danielholter on Twitter danielholter on Flickr Linkedin Profile danielholter on Spotify danielholter on Vimeo danielholter on Youtube About Me I'm a producer and songwriter who's inclined to post about music, philosophy, religion, architecture, politics, design, beauty, the Packers, Apple and my family. There's more info here for those interested. Latest Tweet loading… Follow @danielholter × Posted: Nov 22 10 notes Comments Tags: JFK JFK50 Kennedy 11/22/63 the day the world changed Share this Short URL: Our most basic common link is that we all inhabit this planet. We all breathe the same air. We all cherish our children’s future. And we are all mortal. JFK Posted: Nov 21 65 notes Comments Tags: JFK Kennedy quote humanity peace Share this Short URL: skepticalavenger: I will freakin’ mess up your sandwich. Posted: Nov 21 126 notes Comments skepticalavenger Share this Short URL: I no longer have the energy for meaningless friendships, forced interactions or unnecessary conversations. If we don’t vibrate on the same frequency there’s just no reason for us to waste our time. I’d rather have no one and wait for substance than to not feel someone and fake the funk. Joquesse Eugenia (via room42) Source: wnderlst Posted: Nov 21 166,432 notes Comments ariverisariver Share this Short URL: I DON'T CARE WHAT YOU'RE DOING STOP AND READ THIS lookintothemind: Ok Dr. Phil’s wife, Robin, (yes groan, but listen up) has this new app out (iPhone and Android) that’s for people in abusive relationships. It’s called Aspire News and it’s disguised as a regular news app, but when you go to the “Help” section of the app, it leads you to domestic violence resources and also has a “Go Button” that when you press it, if you’re in a compromising situation, alerts local authorities as well as local shelters and starts recording everything that is going on. Now, if you’re looking up resources on the app and your abuser is near, simply press the X button and it brings you to a random news page. Same goes for the actual foundation site. ITS COMPLETELY FREE Site Apps SPREAD THIS, DONT JUST “LIKE IT” Source: lookintothemind Posted: Nov 21 109,840 notes Comments purpleishboots Share this Short URL: We’re in a world now where it’s not enough to be smart. You have to be curious. Curiosity is rare. That level of intelligence is rare. Probably the further up in a business you are, the less intelligent you need to be. At the entry stage, the sieve grows ever tighter and education can only do so much. The truth is we don’t manufacture that many really smart people. Barry Diller’s Media Industry Outlook for 2014  (via thatkindofwoman) Source: briannegarcia Posted: Nov 20 1,082 notes Comments filterandfocus Share this Short URL: theatlantic: Fidel Castro: ‘Oswald Could Not Have Been the One Who Killed Kennedy’ Fidel Castro shares at least one belief with the majority of Americans: He is convinced that the assassination of President John F. Kennedy was not the work of a lone gunman, but was the culmination of a broad conspiracy. According to a recent Gallup poll, 61 percent of Americans believe Lee Harvey Oswald did not act alone in Dallas 50 years ago. But Castro suspects that Oswald might not have been involved in the assassination at all. Here is what he told me–to my great surprise–over lunch one day in Havana: “I have reached the conclusion that Oswald could not have been the one who killed Kennedy.” Castro is of course a confident man, but he said this with a degree of surety that was noteworthy. I was visiting Havana three years ago at Castro’s invitation. I had just written a cover story for The Atlantic about Israel’s threat to strike militarily at Iran’s nuclear facilities. Castro read the article, and sent me a message through the Cuban Interest Section in Washington: He would like me to come to Cuba as soon as possible in order to discuss my findings with him. I obliged. Kennedy was only a peripheral subject of our discussions. Castro, I found, was preoccupied with the threat of nuclear war and proliferation, as one would expect him to be: He was one of the three key players in an episode, the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, that nearly brought about the destruction of the planet. John F. Kennedy was his adversary; Nikita Khrushchev, the Soviet premier, was his patron. At one point, I mentioned to him the letter he wrote to Khrushchev, at the height of the crisis, in which he asked the Soviets to consider launching a nuclear strike against the U.S. if the Americans attacked Cuba. “That would be the time to think about liquidating such a danger forever through a legal right of self-defense,” he wrote. In Havana, I asked him,  “At a certain point it seemed logical for you to recommend that the Soviets bomb the U.S. Does what you recommended still seem logical now?” He answered: “After I’ve seen what I’ve seen, and knowing what I know now, it wasn’t worth it all.” I expressed relief that Khrushchev ignored his request. Read more. [Image: Claudia Daut/Reuters] Posted: Nov 20 167 notes Comments theatlantic Tags: nikita khrushchev Fidel Castro Kennedy JFK lee harvey oswald politics nuclear war Share this Short URL: Truth, in matters of religion, is simply the opinion that has survived. Oscar Wilde (via testinggod) Source: testinggod Posted: Nov 20 89 notes Comments skepticalavenger Tags: truth religion Share this Short URL: Hey, I made a quick JFK thing that seems especially apropos for the interwebz. Posted: Nov 20 52 notes Comments Tags: legit signature PSDskillz JFK thinking is hard Share this Short URL: Jackie Kennedy’s Letter to Khrushchev: My Last Nights in the White House Washington, December 1, 1963. Dear Mr. Chairman President, I would like to thank you for sending Mr. Mikoyan as your representative to my husband’s funeral. He looked so upset when he came through the line, and I was very moved. I tried to give him a message for you that day—but as it was such a terrible day for me, I do not know if my words came out as I meant them to. So now, in one of the last nights I will spend in the White House, in one of the last letters I will write on this paper at the White House, I would like to write you my message. I send it only because I know how much my husband cared about peace, and how the relation between you and him was central to this care in his mind. He used to quote your words in some of his speeches-”In the next war the survivors will envy the dead.” You and he were adversaries, but you were allied in a determination that the world should not be blown up. You respected each other and could deal with each other. I know that President Johnson will make every effort to establish the same relationship with you. The danger which troubled my husband was that war might be started not so much by the big men as by the little ones. While big men know the needs for self-control and restraint—little men are sometimes moved more by fear and pride. If only in the future the big men can continue to make the little ones sit down and talk, before they start to fight. I know that President Johnson will continue the policy in which my husband so deeply believed—a policy of control and restraint—and he will need your help. I send this letter because I know so deeply of the importance of the relationship which existed between you and my husband, and also because of your kindness, and that of Mrs. Khrushcheva in Vienna. I read that she had tears in her eyes when she left the American Embassy in Moscow, after signing the book of mourning. Please thank her for that. Sincerely, Jacqueline Kennedy Posted: Nov 20 296 notes Comments apsies Tags: JFK Jackie Kennedy nikita khrushchev Share this Short URL: Page 1 / 1504 Older RSS Archive Mobile Random ask The New Yorker by Pixel Union Powered by Tumblr ©2013 ApoplecticSkeptic.com 
