Relax: Apple's iOS 7.0.4 Is Jailbreak Safe, Hacker Confirms -- AppAdvice
 Home app reviews app lists app guides app charts app isodes app base Our Sponsors how to sponsor us Relax: Apple's iOS 7.0.4 Is Jailbreak Safe, Hacker Confirms BY Joe White on Thu November 14th, 2013 iH8sn0w ios 7 iOS 7.0.4 jailbreak jailbreak iOS 7 jailbreak iOS 7.0.4 Musclenerd Those considering jailbreaking their iOS 7-powered iDevices further down the line shouldn’t be concerned about installing iOS 7.0.4, according to one iOS hacker. The news came from @ iH8sn0w, who said that iOS 7.0.4, which corrected a few minor bugs in Apple’s mobile OS concerning FaceTime calling, “has no security changes.” In a further Twitter update, he noted of Apple and its recent software updates that: The last few updates have not been directed as patching anything jb-related. They’re probably waiting. Soon after, the news was also confirmed by long-time iOS hacker and all-round jailbreak authority @ MuscleNerd, who published a Twitter update of his own. Despite confirming that iOS 7.0.4 shouldn’t affect the potential of a future jailbreak if installed, he nevertheless advised users to “avoid it,” just in case. Those at 7.x waiting for JB, maybe treat 7.0.4 as exercise in restraint. Won’t affect JB if you slip up, but test your ability to avoid it! — MuscleNerd (@MuscleNerd) November 14, 2013 For some time, an iOS 7 jailbreak solution is said to have been in the pipeline, and back in October we heard that the elite team of hackers known as “evad3rs” could have found the final piece in the iOS 7 jailbreak puzzle. However, we’ve heard little since – save for the news that iOS 7.0.3 and iOS 7.0.4 are safe to download and install. Here’s hoping a jailbreak solution for iOS 7 launches soon. Though of course, whether such a solution would be compatible with our new Apple A7-powered iDevices, such as the iPhone 5s, iPad Air, and iPad mini with Retina display, remains to be seen. See also:  Today’s Best Apps: Oceanhorn, Tilt To Live 2: Redonkulous, Alpha Zen And More,  New Biography Of Influential Apple SVP Jony Ive Launches In The iBookstore, and  Thumbs Up! iTunes Radio Competitor Songza Adds New Section For Favorite Songs. Retweet Related Articles Apple Releases iOS 7.0.4 To The Public Minor iOS Update Incoming As Use Of iOS 7.0.4 Increases I... About The Author More Info Contact Follow Support Our Sponsors how to sponsor us Recent Reviews Latest AppLists about · advertise · contact · submit a tip · join the AppAdvice team · Copyright 2013 AppAdvice LLC. All rights reserved. 
