
	 Apologies all around | Right Turn
 print Apologies all around By Jennifer Rubin, Updated: January 17 at 1:04 pm Sen. California Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) (Jim Lo Scalzo/European Pressphoto Agency) New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R) gave the mother of all apologies in an almost-two-hour news conference last week. It seems to have done him some good. More pols should try it. Hillary Clinton should apologize for popularizing the individual mandate, which is now a catastrophe, and for Benghazi, Libya, and her entire track record at the State Department. The two biggest teachers unions should apologize — profusely – for opposing legislation to “close the bureaucratic gaps that are often caused by inconsistent state hiring and disciplinary practices that allow sex offenders and violent criminals to get jobs in schools.” (In addition the bill “proposes a standard vetting process across all states that would apply to every teacher, as well as any school employee or contractor with unsupervised access to kids. Anyone with violent or sexual convictions against a child — whether a misdemeanor or felony — would be ineligible for school employment. Background checks would be more thorough, using expanded databases including the FBI’s fingerprint database, the national and state sex offender registries. And districts would be prohibited from knowingly unloading sex abusers on other schools — a practice known as ‘pass the trash.’”) Sen. Mark Udall (D-Colo.) should apologize for  badgering state insurance employees. (The public employees rushed to Udall’s defense, but an independent investigation has yet to be initiated.) Sen. Dianne Feinstein should apologize for claiming that the bipartisan Iran sanctions bill would “let Israel determine when and where the United States goes to war.” Not only is this false, but it’s hypocritical. As the Republican Jewish Coalition pointed out, “Moreover, the language of the provision Senator Feinstein cited is identical to language contained in S. Res. 65, which passed the Senate unanimously — and which Senator Feinstein co-sponsored!” Sen. Harry Reid (D-Nev.) should apologize to his Democratic colleagues for preventing a vote on Obamacare changes and Iran sanctions. He also should ask forgiveness for gutting the filibuster, which Dems will dearly miss if the GOP takes the Senate majority. Senators of both parties who opposed acting against Syria for use of weapons of mass destruction on the grounds that we had no interest in Syria and now are alarmed at Iran’s aggressiveness should apologize for not thinking two steps ahead. Left-wing immigration proponents should apologize for insinuating that House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) wanted to bottle up immigration reform. The Senate Conservatives Fund should apologize for taking donors’ money to back entirely improbable Senate challengers. Then they should return the money. Every 60th vote in the Senate for Obamacare (all Dems in the Senate when Obamacare passed) now running for reelection should apologize for burdening us with Obamacare. Alarmists in the media and Congress who claim that National Security Agency is covered by the Fourth Amendment in gathering metadata and/or who imply that the government is reading the contents of Americans’ e-mails and texts should apologize for undermining an anti-terrorist program that works and, according to the review board, had no abuses. © The Washington Post Company 
