Engineer can’t get decent dinner reservations, creates Urbanspoon-dominating bot | Ars Technica
 ArsTechnica Register Log in Home Main Menu Information Technology Technology Lab Product News & Reviews Gear & Gadgets Business of Technology Ministry of Innovation Security & Hacktivism Risk Assessment Civilization & Discontents Law & Disorder The Apple Ecosystem Infinite Loop Gaming & Entertainment Opposable Thumbs Science & Exploration The Scientific Method Feature Series The Ultimate Smartphone Guide The state of smartphones in 2013. Site Theme Dark on light Light on dark Explore Ars Reviews Video Staff Blogs Feature Archive Staff Directory Contact Us Featured Disciplines Photography Productivity Cloud Gadgets Tablets My Stories: 0 New Since Last Visit See more news stories We Recommend My Discussions Log in to track your discussions. Forums Subscribe Jobs Ministry of Innovation / Business of Technology Engineer can’t get decent dinner reservations, creates Urbanspoon-dominating bot If all the day's best tables are gone by 4:01am, don't bother waking up—get coding. by Nathan Mattise - Jul 25, 2013 7:26 pm UTC Cyberwar Development The Web 146 Want a seat here? Use Diogo Mónica's bot and thank him later. Flickr user: fuzzytraveler It's not uncommon for new San Francisco Bay Area restaurants to spring up and take both the neighborhood and nation by storm (see Mission Chinese Food). But State Bird Provisions (SBP) in the Fillmore district lived this ascent in hyper speed. Despite only opening in 2012, the small plate virtuosos earned distinctions like Bon Appetit's Restaurant of the Year 2012, the James Beard Foundation's Best New Restaurant 2013, and a place in Zagat's 10 Hottest Restaurants in the World. Needless to say, it's hard to just walk up and get a table, even midweek. SBP easily made the SanFranciscoWaits Tumblr. Diogo Mónica, a security engineer at Square, knows this pain as well as anyone. He was a fan from the start, calling SBP "nothing short of spectacular." But as the restaurant's profile grew, its online reservations portal kept returning the same message: "No reservations are currently available. Reservations are taken online up to 60 days in advance. As tables become available, they will be shown here." Rather than getting discouraged, Mónica went to his developer tool kit. He SSHed into his remote server and wrote some code to get notified (via e-mail) every time the SBP reservations page changed. (See the code in full on his blog.) He learned that new reservations open around 4am everyday, saw that most were gone by 5am, and received heads-ups about newly available times from cancellations. But curiously, his setup revealed that most of the primetime reservations were scooped up by 4:01am. "One day I found myself looking at it and noticed that as soon as reservations became available on the website (at 4am), all the good times were immediately taken and were gone by 4:01am," he wrote. "It quickly became obvious that these were reservation bots at work. After a while, even cancellations started being taken immediately from under me. It started being common [to receive] an e-mail alerting of a change, seeing an available time, and it being gone by the time the website loaded." This isn't the first time Mónica ran into extreme reservation trouble (he told Ars via e-mail that SF's House of the Prime Rib, for example, is also mind-numbingly difficult). He believes any website that exposes an unprotected reservation form online (like Urbanspoon and Open Table) can be vulnerable to this. So how does one deal with reservation-thieving bots? With one's own reservation-thieving bot, of course. Using mechanize, Mónica created a ruby script that checked for available reservations in a given time range and then made a reservation under his name. The hack worked—he was able to start finding better seating times at SBP. "Bots are the ideal solution because they require no operation from humans. You want a reservation from a restaurant, you tell your preferred times to the bot and it will check for reservation availability multiple times per minute until it gets you the reservations you want," he told Ars. "In this particular case, bots are actually the only solution because there seem to be other bots at play. Without having one of your own, you are at a significant disadvantage. No human can beat a machine when it comes to these repetitive tasks." If Mónica's hunch about multiple hungry bots in play is correct—and reservation-hacking bots like HackerTable definitely exist, plus colleagues and friends have told him they've done this in the past—he expects the competition to become more efficient. In a sense, the situation is reminiscent of those fast Ticketmaster concert sellouts. On Twitter, these restaurant reservation wars have been compared to high-frequency stock trading.  Mónica even joked that the next step is getting his bot physically closer to the reservation system's Web server so he can have a few-microsecond advantage. Recently, Mónica put his code up for anyone to employ on GitHub. "The point of releasing this bot is leveling the playing field," he said. "My objective is to create a website where non-technical people can use my bot to get reservations of their own. It seems unfair that only technical people get to dine at the 'hip' restaurants in San Francisco." So stay tuned to Mónica's blog for updates on his crusade and notices about other available tools to combat restaurant bots. And as long as the restaurant you're currently targeting uses Urbanspoon, you won't have to eat your fancy dinners at 4pm any longer (for now). UPDATE (2:05pm PST):  EaterSF noticed that Urbanspoon released a statement today in response to Mónica's post (via Inside Scoop): Urbanspoon's data on State Bird Provisions' reservations do not support the findings reported in Diogo Mónica's post. While we will not disclose data about specific customers, we currently have processes in place to prevent duplicate reservations and combat reservation fraud. Urbanspoon's goal is to give real diners the opportunity to make reservations. We've noticed that many diners will stop at nothing to get a table at the hottest restaurants in town, like State Bird Provisions, so we are constantly working on improving the overall reservations process to give all diners an opportunity to secure a table. Urbanspoon did not publicly disclose the data referenced here. But in light of Mónica's story, anecdotal evidence overwhelmingly supports his perception—whether it's first-hand accounts of his friends using bots, commenters at EaterSF or here, or folks on Twitter. We'll update further if more information becomes available. Expand full story Reader comments 146 You must login or create an account to comment. Nathan Mattise / Nathan is a New Orleans-based Staff Editor at Ars Technica. He edits feature reports and contributes to posts on a variety of topics like lost short films and reservation-stealing robots. @nathanmattise ← Older Story Newer Story → You May Also Like Top Feature Story Feature Story (2 pages) Ars deathwatch 2014: Companies on the edge of relevance These five companies won’t die, but they may not escape 2014 in one piece. Watch Ars Video Ars Drone Disaster redux Ars editor Sean Gallagher follows Public Lab's directions to put an eye in the sky. Stay in the know with Follow Ars on Facebook Follow Ars on Twitter Follow Ars on Google Plus Sign Up for the Ars Newsletter Sign up for the Ars Technica Dispatch, which delivers links to the most popular articles, journals, and multimedia features via e-mail to your inbox every week. Your email address: I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its User Agreement and Privacy Policy. Follow Ars with RSS > Main site RSS feed (all content) > View a list of all our RSS feeds The Ars Podcast It's the Ars Technicast! Listen to our staff discuss the issues of the day. > View podcast archive Latest News More power Microsoft quietly bumps Surface Pro 2 processor BlackBerry sues Ryan Seacrest firm over iPhone case that looks like a BlackBerry SecOps failure: GPG+Gmail on OSX Mavericks may store unencrypted drafts Five stars Yelp’s new political action committee set to lobby Congress Final push: Your last chance to enter Ars’ 2013 Charity Sweepstakes Methane release around Arctic islands predates recent climate change Site Links About Us Advertise with us Contact Us Reprints Subscriptions Subscribe to Ars More Reading RSS Feeds Newsletters Conde Nast Sites Reddit Wired Vanity Fair Style Details Visit our sister sites - - - - - - - - - - - - - - GQ Concierge Epicurious Men.Style.com Style.com Wired.com Lipstick.com NutritionData Allure Architectural Digest Bon Appétit Brides Condé Nast Portfolio Glamour Golf Digest Golf World Lucky Self Teen Vogue The New Yorker Vanity Fair W Subscribe to a magazine View All Titles - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Allure Architectural Digest Bon Appétit Brides Condé Nast Portfolio Condé Nast Traveler Details Elegant Bride Glamour Golf Digest Golf World GQ Lucky Modern Bride Self Teen Vogue The New Yorker Vanity Fair Vogue W Wired View Mobile Site © 2014 Condé Nast. All rights reserved Use of this Site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (effective 3/21/12) and Privacy Policy (effective 3/21/12), and Ars Technica Addendum (effective 5/17/2012) Your California Privacy Rights The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Log In Username or Email: Password: Keep me logged in Forgot your password? | Resend activation e-mail Register an Account Don't have an Ars account? It’s fast and easy to register for one. Need to register for a new account? If you don't have an account yet it's free and easy. Register 
