Mo Yan: 'I Just Want to Write—Leave Me Alone' - Shi Yunhan - The Atlantic
     Continue to the TheAtlantic.com Advertisement The Atlantic Subscribe Now Follow Us Politics Top Stories The Latest GOP Efforts to Gum Up Obamacare McCain Calls for NSA Chief's Head, Backs Down Immediately Christie-Martinez: Is This Your 2016 Republican Ticket? Why Does Anyone Trust the National Security State? Just Use the Damned Word. Filibuster Richard Cohen in Context Business Top Stories Being a Young Adult Is a Financial Nightmare The Workforce Is Even More Divided by Race Than You Think How Terrible Is Spirit Airlines, Really? Why Is Childcare Getting So Expensive? What Medium Will the Digital Revolution Destroy Next? Everything You Need to Know About Obamacare and 'Death Spirals' Sponsor Content From Clicks to Bricks: A pair of e-commerce entrepreneurs buck convention and go analog. Tech Top Stories The Carl Sagan of Our Time Reprises the 'Pale Blue Dot' Photo of Earth XKCD Is Amazing, but Its Latest Comic Is Wrong The Absurd Beauty of Creating Musical Turnstiles in NYC's Subway Is the Official Description of the Aboriginal Music on the Voyager Records Wrong? An Ode to Scaffolding How a Sewing Machine Works, Explained in a GIF Special Report: How Breakthroughs Happen Entertainment Top Stories Is Lily Allen's New Video Really That Progressive? 'We Just Sat and Held Each Other': Watching Your Life Story Onstage The Hunger Games' Perfect/Terrible Tears for Fears Cover What Really Makes a Film Feminist? One Way to Keep Writing: 'Remember Death' Arcade Fire Exploited Haiti, and Almost No One Noticed Sponsor Content From Eisenhower to Elvis: 10 Icons Whose Lives Shaped History Sponsor Content From MLK to Maria Callas: 10 Icons Whose Lives Shaped History Sponsor Content From Tiger Woods to Winston Churchill: 10 Icons Whose Lives Shaped History Health Top Stories Caffeine 'Addiction': A Tortured Love Huh Means the Same Thing in Every Language Letting Medical Students Run the Clinic Caffeine 'Addiction': A Tortured Love Study: Morning People Win How the Brain Creates Personality: A New Theory Special Report: Building a Better Human Sponsor Content Found in Translation: The Journey of Chef Alex Stupak Education Top Stories The Two-Year Law Degree: A Great Idea That Will Never Come to Be 'I Don’t Know Anything': Why M. Night Shyamalan Wrote a Book on Education Letting Medical Students Run the Clinic After-School Activities Make Educational Inequality Even Worse The Stereotypes About Math That Hold Americans Back How Getting Into College Became Such a Long, Frenzied, Competitive Process Sponsor Content A New National Education Imperative Sponsor Content Securing Economic Strength Through Education Sponsor Content The Innovators Who Are Transforming U.S. Education Sexes Top Stories Women and Beer: A 4,500-Year History Is Coming Full Circle 23% of Americans Would Prefer a Female Boss (and That's a Record High) The Psychology of Giant Princess Eyes Sorry, Marriage Is a 'Luxury Good' Lake Bell on Filmmaking, Push-Up Bras, and Feminism 'Advice to a Younger Me': Female Leaders on Starting Out National Top Stories Why Aren't There More Black Federal Judges in Alabama, Florida, and Georgia? Help Veterans by Taking Them Off the Pedestal Connecting With My Father's Wartime Loss, 70 Years Later Half a Life in Solitary: How Colorado Made a Young Man Insane The Last Stand of the JFK Truthers Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, Defender of the Constitution Sponsor Content Aaron Koblin: Making Data Beautiful Sponsor Content Leo Villareal: Making the Bay Bridge His Canvas Sponsor Content Motion-Controlled Computing: Science-Fiction No More Global Top Stories How Online Mapmakers Are Helping the Red Cross Save Lives in the Philippines Meet the Gadget-Wielding Techies Who Are Getting the Philippines Back Online Huh Means the Same Thing in Every Language Liberia's Top Presidential Escort Busted for Smuggling Pot With Official Jeep The Suffering of the Philippines: 2 Charities to Consider Social Networking by Tribe Sponsor Content How Can U.S. Investors Capitalize on the Shifting Global Landscape? Sponsor Content What Does the U.S. Energy Revolution Mean for Investors? Sponsor Content Active vs. Passive Investing: Which is the Best Approach? China Top Stories China’s Intensifying Suppression of Foreign Journalism How Xi Jinping Failed at China’s Big Political Meeting China’s Brash Young Actors Swap Ideology for a Chance at Fame The Glitz and Glamour of the Scrap-Metal Trade Hong Kong's Eerie, Beautiful Hillside Cemeteries This Latest Chinese Censorship News Is Important, and Bad Video Top Stories The Dos and Don'ts of Skateboarding: A 1970s Guide The Man Behind Some of the Greatest Songs of All Time Watch a 98-Year-Old Man Create Beautiful Images in Microsoft Paint Why Messing With People Is the Best Job in the World Peek Into Late 1960s Drug Culture The Rise of the Bicycle in the 21st Century Magazine In This Month's Issue The 50 Greatest Breakthroughs Since the Wheel Who Will Tomorrow's Historians Consider Today's Greatest Inventors? The Amazon Mystery The Passion of Flannery O’Connor Why We Live 40 Years Longer Today Than We Did in 1880 Fraud Alert Regarding The Atlantic Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Editions Subscribe Newsletters E-books Apps Longreads In Focus Events Just In What Really Makes a Film Feminist? How Getting Into College Got So Hard By Julia Ryan One Way to Keep Writing: 'Remember Death' By Joe Fassler The Devastation of Super-Typhoon Haiyan By Alan Taylor Sponsor Content Icons: From Eisenhower to Elvis Mo Yan: 'I Just Want to Write—Leave Me Alone' The Nobel laureate's refusal to discuss politics raises a question: Do cultural figures in China have a responsibility to be dissidents? Shi Yunhan May 10 2013, 9:57 AM ET Tweet More Email Print Mo Yan (L) of China, winner of the 2012 Nobel Prize for Literature, smiles as he poses next to his wife Du Qinlan after receiving his prize during the Nobel Prize award ceremony at the Stockholm Concert Hall in Stockholm December 10, 2012. (Jonas Ekstromer/Reuters) Whether or not I deserved the Nobel Prize, I already received it, and now it's time to get back to my writing desk and produce a good work. I hear that the 2013 list of Nobel Prize nominees has been finalized. I hope that once the new laureate is announced, no one will pay attention to me anymore. MORE FROM TLN Tea Time Chat An Insider's View of Chinese Universities Chinese Leader Praises Mao Instead of Burying Him and Splits Weiberati Unrest in Beijing Over Mysterious Death of Young Woman This is how 2012 Nobel laureate Mo Yan ended a recent speech at the 2nd Sino-Australian Literary Forum in Beijing, where he shared the stage with 2003 laureate J.M. Coetzee. No doubt Mo Yan is trying to end the debate on whether the Nobel selection committee had made the right decision in awarding the prize a Chinese author who does not comfortably fit the "dissident" box. Mo Yan directly addressed a main controversy that surrounded him since his win: "Should Nobel laureates take on more social responsibility?" His answer was a firm negative: The prize money does not come out of taxpayers' pockets, so I don't have such responsibilities. I hate partisan politics and how people gang up on opponents based on ideology. I like to come and go on my own, which allows me to look on from the sidelines with a clear mind and gain insight about the world and the human condition. I don't have the capability or interest of becoming a politician. I just want to write, quietly, and do some charity work in secret. Mo Yan added that while it is laudable when Nobel recipients feel compelled to act in the name of the award, the decision not to do so, whatever its motivation, should not be portrayed as immoral. Mo Yan noted that he "really did not want to attend" the literary event and then went further, asking event organizers to stop inviting him, and asking fans to stop visiting the places he has lived. Chinese local media have recently reported that tourists have been taking home bits and pieces of Mo Yan's former residences. Mo Yan has never hidden his desire to return to his writing desk. Since last October, when his selection as Nobel laureate was announced, Mo Yan has made few domestic and foreign media appearances. On Sina Weibo his last message was from last October, thanking his fans and welcoming criticism from his detractors. It is not surprising to hear Mo Yan point out that a Nobel laureate has no technical obligations for increased social activism. Even before he won the Nobel Prize, Mo Yan spoke negatively on the public duties that can come with literary awards. It is also in line with his pen name, which means "don't speak" in Chinese. The phrase refers to an ancient saying calling ordinary people to refrain from speaking out in public, especially on state affairs. However, now that he is China's first officially acknowledged Nobel laureate, his sincere desire for a low-profile openly runs against his adoption by the Chinese government as a national symbol and source of pride. It is no secret that the Chinese government has been actively campaigning for a Nobel award to be awarded to a Chinese writer living in China. A front page article in the People's Daily after Mo Yan's win framed the award as an overdue recognition of an "ancient civilization" and "literary world power," directly related to China's current "peaceful rise," and conveniently ignored the fact that another Chinese writer, dissident Gao Xingjian, won the Nobel prize for literature while living in exile in France. In contrast with official efforts, Mo Yan has emphasized that he considers the award to be a recognition of his individual literary achievements. He denies both the political nature of the award decision, and the claim that his win represents an achievement on China's development path. In his acceptance speech for the Nobel prize, he only mentioned "China" three times, all in an attempt to contextualize Gaomi, his home region in China's Shandong province, carving out a place for this town and its traditions in a global body of oral and written literature. On Weibo, Internet users generally showed support for Mo Yan's speech. Many described his call for the public to ignore him as "a daring act" and "brave." As @米斋 puts it: "I used to just enjoy his novels, but now I enjoy Mo Yan as a person as well: he speaks his mind." The broad consensus that Mo Yan should be allowed to return to his writing table is likely enhanced by an awareness that his award has been hijacked by national interests. Mo Yan's speech was also widely reported in Chinese state media, yet hardly garnered a mention abroad. That's too bad, because his message is worth noting outside of China as well. Until October, he will remain the most recent Nobel laureate in literature. Whatever one's opinions on Mo Yan, his works, or the Nobel prize may be, it's beyond debate that he has issued a thought-provoking challenge to how both foreign and domestic commentators define the role of Nobel Laureate. This post also appears at  Tea Leaf Nation , an Atlantic partner site. Jump to comments Tweet Email Print Shi Yunhan is a China-based contributor to Tea Leaf Nation. All Posts Try 2 Free Issues! Go Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Edition Get Today's Top Stories in Your Inbox (preview) Email Address Why Is Childcare Getting So Expensive? Jordan Weissmann Nov 12, 2013 The Two-Year Law Degree: A Great Idea That Will Never Come to Be Matt Barnum Nov 12, 2013 How a Sewing Machine Works, Explained in a GIF Rebecca J. Rosen Nov 12, 2013 A Heartbreaking Paragraph of Breathtaking Prejudice Ta-Nehisi Coates Nov 12, 2013 Video More Video Caffeine 'Addiction': A Tortured Love Tweet What the U.S. Doesn't Get About Math The U.S. Postal Service: Amazon vs. Christianity How the Brain Creates Personality: A New Theory How Online Mapmakers Are Helping the Red Cross Save Lives in the Philippines ‹ › Elsewhere on the web Sponsored Links Join the Discussion After you comment, click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register. blog comments powered by Disqus Close Video What Combat Feels Like An animated film based on a true story by Iraq veteran Colby Buzzell Video Turning Bacon Fat Into Bombs A cartoon explains how keeping your kitchen grease can help win the war. Video A 5'5" Basketball Player Learns to Dunk One of the shortest men in the world capable of dunking a basketball. Video Advice to a Younger Me: Michelle Peluso The CEO of Gilt reflects on leadership and work-life balance Video Surfers Battle Billionaire for the Beach A documentary goes inside the ongoing fight for coastal access. Video From Stoop Sales to Chief Digital Officer of NYC Rachel Haot reflects on her experiences founding a startup Video Searching for Jesus on a Motorcycle “I believe Jesus rides a Harley, there’s no doubt about it.” Video Career Advice From the CEO of DreamWorks Stacey Snider describes how she worked her way up from the mailroom Video The Highs (and Lows) of Starting Your Own Company Ayah Bdeir describes how she created littleBits Video Lake Bell on Filmmaking, Push-Up Bras, and Feminism The writer, director, and actress shares stories from her career.  Video The Rise of the Bicycle in the 21st Century Investigating solutions to increasing automobile traffic. Video Peek Into Late 1960s Drug Culture "I feel it's easier to get acid or speed than it is to buy bubblegum at a store, because (at a store) you have to wait in line." Video How Calvin and Hobbes Inspired a Generation A film explores the extraordinary influence of Bill Watterson's creation. Video A 98-Year-Old Man With a Gift for Microsoft Paint A short documentary showcases the art of Hal Lasko. Video The Man Behind Some of the Greatest Songs The legendary songwriter Doc Pomus. Video The Dos and Don'ts of Skateboarding A 1970s archival film explains how to cruise the streets safely. Writers Up Rebecca J. Rosen Is the Official Description of the Aboriginal Music on the Voyager Records Wrong? 7:17 AM ET Megan Garber An Ode to Scaffolding 7:00 AM ET Conor Friedersdorf Why Does Anyone Trust the National Security State? 6:00 AM ET Andrew Cohen Half a Life in Solitary: How Colorado Made a Young Man Insane 6:00 AM ET James Fallows Just Use the Damned Word. Filibuster Nov 12, 2013 Ta-Nehisi Coates Richard Cohen in Context Nov 12, 2013 Robinson Meyer XKCD Is Amazing, but Its Latest Comic Is Wrong Nov 12, 2013 Garance Franke-Ruta Richard Cohen, Meet Helen Thomas Nov 12, 2013 Alexis C. Madrigal The Carl Sagan of Our Time Reprises the 'Pale Blue Dot' Photo of Earth Nov 12, 2013 Jordan Weissmann Why Is Childcare Getting So Expensive? Nov 12, 2013 Olga Khazan Huh Means the Same Thing in Every Language Nov 12, 2013 Spencer Kornhaber The Hunger Games' Perfect/Terrible Tears for Fears Cover Nov 12, 2013 Matt Schiavenza China’s Intensifying Suppression of Foreign Journalism Nov 12, 2013 Derek Thompson What Medium Will the Digital Revolution Destroy Next? Nov 12, 2013 Matthew O'Brien Everything You Need to Know About Obamacare and 'Death Spirals' Nov 12, 2013 James Hamblin Caffeine 'Addiction': A Tortured Love Nov 12, 2013 Julie Beck Study: Morning People Win Nov 12, 2013 Kasia Cieplak-Mayr von Baldegg Ask Washington Anything Nov 11, 2013 David A. Graham Chris Christie-Susana Martinez: Is This Your 2016 Republican Ticket? Nov 11, 2013 Corby Kummer The Trans-Fat Ban as a Model of Slow Health Policy Nov 8, 2013 Ashley Fetters Why You Shouldn't Judge Lance Armstrong (and Why You Should) Nov 8, 2013 Jennie Rothenberg Gritz Green: R.E.M.'s Greatest Album Nov 8, 2013 Christopher Orr The Lightweight Charm of Thor: The Dark World Nov 8, 2013 Emma Green Convincing Millennials to 'Marry a Nice Jewish Boy' Nov 7, 2013 Down More in China China’s Intensifying Suppression of Foreign Journalism Matt Schiavenza How Xi Jinping Failed at China’s Big Political Meeting Gwynn Guilford China’s Brash Young Actors Swap Ideology for a Chance at Fame Lu-hai Liang and Allie Jaynes In Focus Super Typhoon Haiyan Devastates the Philippines Most Popular 1 The Stereotypes About Math That Hold Americans Back 2 How the Brain Creates Personality: A New Theory 3 How a Sewing Machine Works, Explained in a GIF 4 Richard Cohen in Context 5 The Republican Party Isn't Really the Anti-Science Party 6 Arcade Fire Exploited Haiti, and Almost No One Noticed 7 Why Can't We All Just Get Along? The Uncertain Biological Basis of Morality 8 How Online Mapmakers Are Helping the Red Cross Save Lives in the Philippines 9 The Unlikely Alliance That Ended Sunday Mail Delivery ... in 1912 10 Huh Means the Same Thing in Every Language Just In What Really Makes a Film Feminist? Holly L. Derr After-School Activities Make Educational Inequality Even Worse Hilary Levey Friedman Is the Official Description of the Aboriginal Music on the Voyager Records Wrong? Rebecca J. Rosen ATLANTIC MEDIA Atlantic Wire Menino Is Headed to Boston University Johnson & Johnson Reaches $4 Billion Settlement Over Hip Implants U.S. Airways and American Airlines Are Merging More from Atlantic Wire Atlantic Cities America's Biggest City Governments Are Still Struggling to Recover From the Recession What Counts as a Living Wage in London? Why the Government Now Cares a Lot More About How Much You Spend on Gas More from Atlantic Cities Quartz The complete guide to getting your money’s worth out of conferences Forget LED bulbs—the future of interior lighting is lasers Thanks to Hollande’s political plays, French football clubs face a whopping €44 million-tax increase More from Quartz National Journal Why Can’t We Regrow Organs Yet? Skillfully Climbing the Ladder Landrieu Lobbies Hard for Keystone XL More from National Journal Longreads What George Clooney Smells Like, According to Tom Junod 'Am I a Vulture?' Katherine Boo on Reporting and Poverty How to Steal a House More from Longreads Follow The Atlantic App store Facebook Twitter Linkedin Google Plus Tumblr RSS E-Newsletters Today's Top Stories This Week This Month New at In Focus Atlantic Cities 5 Best Columns Information FAQ Subscribe Help Masthead Store Merchandise Jobs Privacy Site Map Terms and Conditions Advertise Advertising Guidelines Press Contact Us Special Reports Atlantic Scene Ebook Events Atlantic Media Subscribe Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price STATE AK AL AR AZ CA CO CT DC DE FL GA HI IA ID IL IN KS KY LA MA MD ME MI MN MO MS MT NC ND NE NH NJ NM NV NY OH OK OR PA RI SC SD TN TX UT VA VT WA WI WV WY YT Next ► Fraud alert regarding The Atlantic Copyright © 2013 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. CDN powered by Edgecast Networks. Insights powered by Parsely . Powered by the Parse.ly Publisher Platform (P3). 
