The Nifty Local Search Website Grader (Infographic) |
 Subscribe: RSS Navigation Home Small Business Big Brands Agencies About Blog Contact Us Navigation 404-error Citation Form Community Outreach Content Questionnaire Copyright Design Questionnaire End of Service Questionnaire Feedback Get Listed Hello Local/Community Questionnaire Nifty’s Content Scale of Awesome Nifty’s Local Site Grader Questionnaire PPC Management Brief Privacy Policy Questionnaire Thank You Sign-Up Sitemap Small Business Thank You Feedback Thank You! Big Brands Agencies About Case Studies Blog Contact Us The Nifty Local Search Website Grader (Infographic) Posted on August 15th, by Mike Ramsey in Blog. 6 comments The Nifty Local Search Website Grader   You want to know what is hard? Explaining local search onsite changes to a business owner. There are a lot of terms like xml sitemap, schema, h1 tags, and NAP information that create a look in “non-indsutry folks” eyes that can only be matched with a plant that can be smoked, or a pile drive to the face from someone like this… Due to the challenge, our crew at Nifty put together a visual grader to show how a website stacks up against what it locally needs. The concept was to try to keep everything on one page, and bring in a measurement system that would be understood by anyone that sees it. While business might not understand EVERY word, they understand where they stand and where they need to be.  There is no better system to do this than by a measurement of 0-100%. We created an overall score so that we can basically say, “You got a 42/100, which means if you were in a class you would be failing…as in F” This usually has a better effect than saying, “Well your home page title tag does mention your brand name, but it doesn’t have any keyword focus at at and we would recommend restructuring that and working on your meta description as you currently don’t have one and Google is basically scraping whatever they think is relevant from your site to show in the snippet.”  (Insert glossy eye look here) After we lead with an overall score we break it down into 4 main areas of importance to give subscores. Sitemap (10%)   – Crucial to ensure crawlability of your local pages. URL Structure (15%) -Keyword + location based structure boosts rankings Local Functions (15%) – Need a location finder to find a freaking location Local Landing Pages (60%) – Onsite local information that just flat out makes sense and helps convert. We determined that everything needing done on a website can be categorized into one of these 4 areas. By giving subscores, businesses can see if they have an area that they are doing ok in, or see what might matter the most. When you put It all together and show the individual tactics you get this gem of a graphic… Most of the individual phrases are hard to understand and would be an overload to try and explain in one sitting. So we send a glossary of terms so a person can look up what they want and ignore the rest.   The whole point of the audit is to simply show them where they are lacking in a simple way. Feel free to learn more about me by checking out my Google+ Profile:  +Mike Ramsey About Mike Ramsey I am the President of Nifty Marketing. I search, I learn, I speak, I write. 6 Responses to “The Nifty Local Search Website Grader (Infographic)” Travis Van Slooten says: August 16, 2012 at 2:26 pm Mike: I love the idea behind what you’re doing. I do something very similar when I do my SEO analysis for clients but I don’t do it via a graphic. I do it via videos but including some kind of graphic is an interesting idea. If you’re open to some constructive feedback, the percentages on the right side of the main graphic are confusing. It says, “58% Needs Done” and “42% Done.” I’m not even sure what that means. Then at the top of the graphic you have, “42% overall.” I think having so many percentages and the labels are confusing. I would scrap the “58% Needs Done” and “42% Done” stuff on the side of the graphic and just leave the main percentage figure at the top of the graphic. Travis Van Slooten Reply AJ Wilcox says: August 16, 2012 at 2:48 pm Nice job, Mike! That looks something fantastic. Now, when do _WE_ get access to the tool? Seriously, though, it’s excellent. I’d love to hear how much more effective this is as a sales tool for Nifty. I’ve always held to the belief that a client that is more educated is a better client. Making it easy for the client to understand supports my theory. Reply Mary Bowling says: August 16, 2012 at 3:46 pm Awesome job, Mike and crew. This really makes it easy to show people what they are already doing well and what else they need to do. Is a local grader tool in the works? Reply Joe Burnich says: August 24, 2012 at 1:48 pm Hey Mike, I’m doing some similar graphics for my clients. One of the biggest problems I find is explaining the whole location issue. This is huge because most of my clients are home based carpet cleaners that live out in the burbs. I’ve been taking a screen shot from Google Maps and Photoshopping a red circle to designate the centroid. Seems to be getting the point across. Reply Nigel Rawlins says: February 13, 2013 at 4:07 am Hi Mike, this is fantastic. I’ve been building wordpress websites for small businesses for a while now, but the big issue for them was getting found locally. I think we are only just getting into this here in Australia. This has given me some great ideas for evaluating local search. Many thanks! Reply Operation Technology says: April 16, 2013 at 8:00 pm Great infographic. I like how it summarizes what needs to be accomplished and enables us to come up with a prioritized game plan with our local SEO clients in Chicago. Reply Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Travis Van Slooten says: August 16, 2012 at 2:26 pm Mike: I love the idea behind what you’re doing. I do something very similar when I do my SEO analysis for clients but I don’t do it via a graphic. I do it via videos but including some kind of graphic is an interesting idea. If you’re open to some constructive feedback, the percentages on the right side of the main graphic are confusing. It says, “58% Needs Done” and “42% Done.” I’m not even sure what that means. Then at the top of the graphic you have, “42% overall.” I think having so many percentages and the labels are confusing. I would scrap the “58% Needs Done” and “42% Done” stuff on the side of the graphic and just leave the main percentage figure at the top of the graphic. Travis Van Slooten Reply AJ Wilcox says: August 16, 2012 at 2:48 pm Nice job, Mike! That looks something fantastic. Now, when do _WE_ get access to the tool? Seriously, though, it’s excellent. I’d love to hear how much more effective this is as a sales tool for Nifty. I’ve always held to the belief that a client that is more educated is a better client. Making it easy for the client to understand supports my theory. Reply Mary Bowling says: August 16, 2012 at 3:46 pm Awesome job, Mike and crew. This really makes it easy to show people what they are already doing well and what else they need to do. Is a local grader tool in the works? Reply Joe Burnich says: August 24, 2012 at 1:48 pm Hey Mike, I’m doing some similar graphics for my clients. One of the biggest problems I find is explaining the whole location issue. This is huge because most of my clients are home based carpet cleaners that live out in the burbs. I’ve been taking a screen shot from Google Maps and Photoshopping a red circle to designate the centroid. Seems to be getting the point across. Reply Nigel Rawlins says: February 13, 2013 at 4:07 am Hi Mike, this is fantastic. I’ve been building wordpress websites for small businesses for a while now, but the big issue for them was getting found locally. I think we are only just getting into this here in Australia. This has given me some great ideas for evaluating local search. Many thanks! Reply Operation Technology says: April 16, 2013 at 8:00 pm Great infographic. I like how it summarizes what needs to be accomplished and enables us to come up with a prioritized game plan with our local SEO clients in Chicago. Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name * Email * Website Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes: <a href="" title="" rel=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong> THE RECENT ONES A new division for us: Meet NiftyLaw 10 Random People’s Reactions To Google Local Carousel Local Search Directories for Attorneys THE ARCHIVES Select Month August 2013 June 2013 April 2013 March 2013 November 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 July 2011 June 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 August 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 August 2009 NIFTY MARKETING 1214 Oakley Avenue | Burley, ID 83318 toll-free. 800-381-4959 local. 208-473-2216 Copyright | Privacy Policy | Working with Third-Parties HOME / SMALL BUSINESS / BIG BRANDS / AGENCIES / ABOUT / BLOG / CONTACT US / SITEMAP 
