Getting married makes female economists poorer and male economists richer
 Real Estate Rentals Cars Today's Paper Going Out Guide Find&Save Service Alley Home PostTV In PostTV Politics In Politics Congress Courts & Law The Fed Page Health Care Polling White House GovBeat Md. Politics Va. Politics D.C. Politics Blogs & Columns Obama: Nobody wants unemployment checks more than a job Post Politics | Aaron Blake How Republicans turned against unemployment insurance The Fix | Scott Clement Millionaires run our government. Here’s why that matters. The Monkey Cage | Nicholas Carnes Session Preview: Missouri aims to cut taxes GovBeat | Reid Wilson Where is the December jobs report? The Federal Eye | Josh Hicks Opinions In Opinions Toles Cartoons Telnaes Animations The Post's View Letters to the Editor Local Opinions Columnist Index Featured Blogs Old Spice’s terrifying new Momsong commercial ComPost | Alexandra Petri A surprising step forward for unemployment benefits The Plum Line | Greg Sargent No Schock in gay gossip PostPartisan | Jonathan Capehart Obama stiffs the oppressed Right Turn | Jennifer Rubin Local In Local D.C. Maryland Virginia Crime Education Obituaries Transportation Weather Blogs & Columns Blogs & Columns Polar vortex delivering D.C.’s coldest day in decades, and we’re not alone Capital Weather Gang | Ian Livingston 15 dishes that will warm your belly and restore feeling to your extremities Going Out Guide | Margaret Ely Thousands of flights canceled, delayed by brutal cold Dr. Gridlock | Mark Berman Sports In Sports Redskins/NFL Capitals/NHL Wizards/NBA Nationals/MLB D.C. United/Soccer Colleges AllMetSports Blogs & Columns Other Sports Blogs & Columns Caps place Urbom on waivers Capitals Insider | Katie Carrera On the Bryce Harper weight ‘controversy’ DC Sports Bog | Sarah Kogod Redskins could lose coaching candidate Franklin to Penn State The Insider | Mark Maske Nationals spring training broadcast schedule Nationals Journal | James Wagner National In National Energy & Environment Health & Science Education National Security Investigations Innovations Know More Religion On Giving Corrections Blogs & Columns 10 bold predictions for tech in 2014 Innovations | Dominic Basulto Circumcision less common in U.S. and parts of Europe Michelle Boorstein ‘SNL’ names new black female castmember: Sasheer Zamata She The People | Soraya Nadia McDonald World In World Africa The Americas Asia & Pacific Europe Middle East National Security War Zones Special Reports Columns & Blogs Blogs & Columns 2013 was the year of cybersecurity WorldViews | Max Fisher Nepali woman died as housekeeper in Kuwait WorldViews | Anup Kaphle This map shows South Sudan’s crisis WorldViews | Max Fisher The three types of Snowden leaks WorldViews | Max Fisher Business In Business Economy Industries Markets Policy & Regulation Know More World Business Capital Business On Leadership On Small Business On I.T. Blogs & Columns The fast(ing) track to financial freedom: 21 days of focus The Color of Money | Michelle Singletary Extreme cold is a major killer Wonkblog | Ezra Klein Auburn coach Gus Malzahn plays to his strengths On Leadership | Jena McGregor Tech In Technology Innovation Green Technology The Switch Photo Galleries Blogs & Columns At CES, gaming industry shows off promising gadgetry Hayley Tsukayama Netflix’s 4K “House of Cards” will gobble up a ton of data The Switch | Brian Fung Online harassment of women is a problem. Here’s what to do about it. The Switch | Timothy B. Lee Who would want Samsung’s new 12-inch tablet? The Switch | Brian Fung Lifestyle In Lifestyle Advice Carolyn Hax Food Express Home & Garden Style Travel Weddings Wellness Magazine KidsPost On Parenting Blogs & Columns ‘Downton Abbey’ scores highest ratings ever for Season 4 premiere The Style Blog | Emily Yahr The spy who didn’t make pancakes The Reliable Source | Emily Heil Entertainment In Entertainment Books Comics Going Out Guide Horoscopes Movies Museums Music Puzzles & Games Theater & Dance TV Blogs & Columns Teachers should heed banner year for graphic novels Comic Riffs | Michael Cavna 15 dishes that will warm your belly and restore feeling to your extremities Going Out Guide | Margaret Ely Jobs In Jobs More Classifieds Cars Deals Real Estate Rentals Photos Blogs Discussions Find&Save Obituaries Archives Topics WP Wine Club WP BrandConnect Business Economy Industries Markets Policy & Regulation Know More World Business Capital Business On Leadership On Small Business WONKBLOG Alan Greenspan's graph of the year The British business lobby's unorthodox new year's message Vaclav Smil's graph of the year Paul Farmer's graph of the year 1.1 million have signed up for Obamacare on HealthCare.gov The end of SeaTac's $15 minimum wage? Economy Economists agree: Raising the minimum wage reduces poverty 2014 will answer this huge question about the U.S. economy From NASCAR to wind power: Congress just let 55 tax breaks expire Here’s what we got right, and wrong, about the economy in 2013 Seven things you should know about the expiration of unemployment benefits View all Tag Posts Health Care About 80 percent of hip doctors have no idea how much a hip replacement costs Good news! Health spending as a share of the economy is shrinking. The battle of the anecdotes: Gird yourself for Obamacare’s newest fight The group that got health reform passed is declaring victory and going home How’s That New Obamacare Plan Working Out? View all Tag Posts Energy Can global warming be real if it’s cold in the U.S.? Um… yes! With a bit of luck, the U.S. could actually hit its 2020 climate change goals One problem with geoengineering: Once you start, you can’t really stop Vaclav Smil’s graph of the year: The natural-gas boom Bill McKibben’s graph of the year: We’re extracting more fossil fuels than ever View all Tag Posts Immigration From unemployment to the farm bill: Here are 7 things Congress has to do this month What gives us a right to deport people? Joseph Carens on the ethics of immigration Can Obama legalize 11 million immigrants on his own? Obama’s devious plot to destroy the Republican Party by increasing its vote share among Hispanics House Democrats have released their own immigration bill. Here’s what it does. View all Tag Posts Shutdown FAQ Archives Follow: More Wonkblog Getting married makes female economists poorer and male economists richer By Lydia DePillis January 6 at 1:24 pm More Comments For a long time, like many elite academic fields, the world of PhD economists was almost exclusively a boys club -- back in 1970, only 5 percent graduated by U.S. universities were female U.S. citizens. That gradually started changing, though, and the proportion reached a high of 16 percent in the mid-1990s. But progress isn't necessarily a linear upward trend toward gender parity, as Wendy Stock of the University of Montana and John Siegfried of Vanderbilt find in a study presented at the American Economics Association conference over the weekend. The proportion of female U.S. citizens landing economics degrees is now back around 11 percent. And while the share of female non-U.S. citizens continued to rise, the combined percentage has stagnated at about a third of total graduates. Why the retrenchment? It may have to do with another phenomenon the researchers noticed in a surveyÂ of graduates over the last 15 years: When examining demographic and graduate school factors associated with salary growth during the early career years, we found that marriage was significantly associated with salary growth, with those who were married at the time they earned their degree experiencing roughly 15 percent higher salary growth over the first five years of their careers. For males, getting married within the first five years after graduation was associated with a 25 percent salary growth premium relative to other males. For females,Â however, getting married was associated with a 23 percent salary growth penalty relative to other females, perhaps reflecting compromises incurred in a two-career job search. "Compromises incurred in a two-career job search." "Compromise" suggests a level of equality, but theÂ data suggests that women are more often the ones who sacrifice for their husbands' careers.Â That could mean that women tend to be the ones who move so that their partners can take better jobs. But it also likely correlates with the fact that marriage tends to come with kids, and the burden of caring for them falls more heavily on women -- the Pew Research Center last month found a big gender gap in the proportion of people who take time off to care for family members, and the negative career impact on those who do. There might not be a direct causal relationship between those two findings, but both are bad news for women in the economics field (as well as statistics and math, where the trend is similar). And even though the pool of people we're talking about is small, at only about 1,000 per year, it's a pretty influential group -- they shape the rules that govern the global economy, and having women represented is important. Having Janet Yellen chair the Fed is one thing. Allowing other women to follow her lead is another. Lydia DePillis is a reporter focusing on business policy, including lobbying, government contracting, and international trade, with a bit of urban affairs and infrastructure on the side. She was previously a staff writer at The New Republic and the Washington City Paper. Email herÂ  hereÂ and follow her on Twitter here. Also on Wonkblog Has Obamacare really signed up 10 million people? The Post Most 1 Will Robert Griffin III help or hurt the next Washington Redskins coach? 2 Brazil's oil euphoria hits reality hard 3 Federal Washington cashes in on connections 4 The best diets, according to U.S. News and World Report 5 Bitter cold about to bite Washington; temps likely to be the lowest in two decades 
