Lawrenceville (3) at Loomis Chaffee (Conn.) (1) - Girls Ice Hockey - NJ.com
 High School Sports Menu Home News Local Politics Sports High School Sports Entertainment Jobs Autos Real Estate Classifieds Obituaries Find&Save Local Businesses Follow Us Back to Main Menu All Newspapers Business Education Forums Health Lottery National Opinion/NJ Voices Photos Videos World Back to Main Menu All Newspapers Local Forums Your photos Your Videos Back to Main Menu The Auditor Chris Christie News Elections Tom Moran Paul Mulshine Opinion/NJ Voices Statehouse Forum Back to Main Menu Devils Eagles Flyers Giants Jets Knicks Mets Nets Phillies Rangers Red Bulls Rutgers Rutgers FB Seton Hall Sixers Yankees More Back to Main Menu Arts Celebrities Dining Food & Recipes Music TV Movies Shore Comics Puzzles More entertainment Back to Main Menu Home News Weather Sports Entertainment Living Interact Jobs Autos Real Estate Classifieds Place An Ad Back to Main Menu Advanced Search New Car Pricing Used Cars Research Motorcycles Classic Cars Find A Dealer Place An Ad More Back to Main Menu Homes New Homes Rent Foreclosures Commercial Mortgage Place An Ad More Back to Main Menu Obits Rentals Pets For Sale Garage Sales Fraud Prevention Manage Your Ad Place An Ad More Back to Main Menu Business Columns Education National Obits Opinion/NJ Voices Politics Star-Ledger Town pages Forums More Back to Main Menu Find A Business Food & Dining Retail Shopping Health & Medicine Personal Care Entertainment Real Estate Automotive Claim Your Business Back to Main Menu High School Sports Home Wrestling Boys Basketball Girls Basketball Boys Swimming Girls Swimming Boys Bowling Girls Bowling Boys Winter Track Girls Winter Track Boys Ice Hockey Girls Ice Hockey Boys Fencing Girls Fencing Girls Tennis Girls Cross Country Boys Cross Country Girls Soccer Field Hockey Boys Soccer Girls Volleyball Football Off Season Sports More Back to High School Sports Menu Boys Golf Boys Track and Field Girls Lacrosse Boys Lacrosse Softball Baseball Co-Ed Swimming Girls Skiing Boys Skiing Boys Volleyball Boys Tennis Girls Gymnastics Girls Golf Girls Track and Field Back to Main Menu Visit our Facebook Page Follow us on Twitter Visit us on Google Plus View our Instagram Photos See our Tumblr feed See our Pinterest page Back to Main Menu Close Customize Your Weather Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code) Congratulations! Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time. AccuWeather.com Quick Look Change your current location » View Full Weather Report Search NJ.com Account Close Sign in to NJ.com Remember me Forgot your username and password? Don't have an account? Register now for free, or sign in with any of these services: You are signed in as Edit Public Profile Sign Out Favorite Schools expand Go make some schools your favorites! Favorite Teams close Go make some teams your favorites! Subscribe The Star-Ledger The Star-Ledger The Times of Trenton The Jersey Journal South Jersey Times Hunterdon County Democrat Cranford Chronicle Star Gazette The Messenger-Gazette The Warren Reporter Independent Press Suburban News Standings Scores & Schedules Find a: School Team Player Select a Sport Select a League/Division Select a Sport Select a League/Division Select a Sport Coming Sunday, December 22: Fall 2013 All-Ledger, honoring the season's top athletes, teams and coaches comments Girls Ice Hockey Lawrenceville (3) at Loomis Chaffee (Conn.) (1) - Girls Ice Hockey By Star-Ledger on December 19, 2013 8:59 p.m. View/Post Comments 12/19 - 4:00 PM Girls Ice Hockey Final Lawrenceville 3 Loomis Chaffee (Conn.) 1 Complete Box Score » Amanda Drobot scored twice before assisting on Katie Leininger's goal in the third period as Lawrenceville skated to a 3-1 victory over Looms Chaffee of Connecticut at Mays Rink in Watertown, Conn. Sophia Lattanzio made 28 saves for Lawrenceville. Related Links: Lawrenceville Girls Ice Hockey Loomis Chaffee (Conn.) Girls Ice Hockey Lawrenceville Loomis Chaffee (Conn.) View/Post Comments Related Stories Choate Rosemary Hall (Conn.) (1) at Lawrenceville (1) - Girls Ice Hockey Field hockey All-County, All-Area, All-Group and All-Prep selections, 2013 Featured News Wrestling H.S. wrestling: Live updates from The Beast of the East, Dec. 21-22 1 day, 18 hours ago Joe Kania/For The Star-Ledger Boys Soccer Boys soccer season in review, 2013 6 hours ago Star-Ledger HS Sports Desk Girls Soccer Girls soccer season in review, 2013 6 hours ago Star-Ledger HS Sports Desk Field Hockey Field hockey season in review, 2013 6 hours ago Star-Ledger HS Sports Desk Girls Basketball Girls basketball: Results and links for Saturday, Dec. 21 11 hours ago Richard Greco/For The Star-Ledger Boys Ice Hockey Ice Hockey: Results and links for Saturday, Dec. 21 14 hours ago Chris Hachey/For The Star-Ledger New Jersey's Top 10 high school sports stories of 2013 3 days, 7 hours ago Star-Ledger HS Sports Desk Winter sports previews, 2013-14 2 days, 11 hours ago Star-Ledger HS Sports Desk See More Sports News » nj.com About Us About NJ.com Advertise with us Contact Us Jobs at NJ.com Newsletters RSS feeds More on NJ.com Interact Weather Blogs Premium Blogs Site map Claim your free business listing Search Place an ad Sell your car Sell/rent your home Post a job Post a free classified ad Apartments & rentals NJ.com Sections N.J. News Local News N.J. Politics Sports High School Sports Entertainment Food & Recipes Living Business Opinion Inside Jersey Shore Obituaries Jobs Autos Real Estate Rentals Classifieds Shopping Good Deals Local Businesses Special Sections Contribute to NJ.com Submit your photos Submit your videos Forums Register for free with NJ.com Submit an event Follow Us Twitter | Facebook Google+ | foursquare Newspaper stories and photos The Star-Ledger | Subscribe The Times of Trenton | Subscribe The Jersey Journal | Subscribe South Jersey Times | Subscribe Hunterdon County Democrat | Subscribe Cranford Chronicle | Subscribe Star Gazette | Subscribe The Messenger-Gazette The Warren Reporter Independent Press Suburban News Learn more about our newspapers Mobile Mobile site | iPhone, Android apps | Tablet apps Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy © 2013 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management. Ad Choices 
