Obama names Susan Rice as national security adviser despite Benghazi controversy | Fox News
 Menu FoxNews.com Politics Search Search Sign in to comment! Politics Home Executive Senate House of Representatives Defense Judiciary Scandals EXECUTIVE Obama names Susan Rice as national security adviser despite Benghazi controversy Published June 05, 2013 FoxNews.com Facebook 0 Twitter 0 LinkedIn 0 June 5, 2013: A White House official tells Fox News Tom Donilon, left, is resigning as President Barack Obama's national security adviser and will be replaced by Susan Rice. AP ADVERTISEMENT President Obama named Susan Rice as his national security adviser on Wednesday, despite persistent criticism from Republicans over her initial account of the Benghazi terror attack. Obama, speaking in the Rose Garden, called Rice a "tireless advocate" for advancing America's interests.  "She is at once passionate and pragmatic," Obama said.  Rice will replace Tom Donilon, who is resigning from the post. Rice, the current U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, does not need Senate confirmation for the job.  The ambassador had earlier been considered in the running for the secretary of State post, which does require confirmation, but withdrew from consideration amid the continuing fallout over her role following the Benghazi attack.  Rice went on five Sunday shows after the attack and claimed it was triggered by protests over an anti-Islam film, an explanation many lawmakers said at the time was inaccurate. The administration later acknowledged there were no protests on the ground in Benghazi, though they have not officially ruled out that protests elsewhere may have played a role.  Republicans bristled at the news that Rice was being named to the new position. Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., accused her of "misleading" the public on Benghazi.  "How are they going to have the authority for people to believe what they're saying, when he's promoting someone who directly and deliberately misled the public over Benghazi?" Paul said on Fox News.  Rice's defenders dispute that charge.  The administration, under pressure from the media and Republicans, last month released the so-called "talking points" which showed officials drafting and re-drafting their storyline in advance of Rice's appearance. The intelligence community did cite demonstrations -- however, references to militant and Islamic extremist groups, and to prior security warnings and incidents, were ultimately stripped out after objections from various administration officials.  It's unclear what level of involvement Rice had in this process. Officials, speaking in her defense, have said she was merely citing the assessment she was given on Sept. 16.  Former Obama aide Samantha Power, meanwhile, was nominated to succeed Rice as U.S. ambassador to the U.N. Power was an aide to the Obama campaign in 2008 but resigned after a report was published in which she called then-candidate Hillary Clinton a "monster." A senior official told Fox News that Donilon decided to leave the security adviser post after his wife took a job that involves a lot of foreign travel. He has been in the administration since the start, first as deputy national security adviser.  Fox News' Ed Henry contributed to this report.  Advertisement Politics Videos Hillary, Christie and why President Trump could happen How to fight income inequality: Get married The hidden truth behind the ObamaCare enrollent numbers Gov. Christie to address N.J. legislators Reaction to new bombshells on Benghazi attack Trending in Politics 1 The Benghazi Transcripts: DOD officials briefed Obama on ‘attack,’ not video 2 The Benghazi Transcripts: US military woefully unprepared for attack, documents show 3 First state to approve conjugal visits prepares to end program, citing costs 4 Report: Government spent millions on penis pumps, paid double retail price 5 Administration lags on attracting young people to ObamaCare, stats show Advertisement More on this... Bolton: Not much will change with Susan Rice's appointment White House shakeup: Why Susan Rice? Susan Rice promotion: Sen. Paul questions Obama's judgment Fox NewsPolitics Politics Home Executive Senate House of Representatives Defense Judiciary Scandals Presidential Approval Approve 51% Disapprove 47% More details Congressional Approval Approve 13% Disapprove 75% More details FoxNews.com Back to Top ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. All market data delayed 20 minutes. Privacy - Terms - FAQ 
