Sabres announce news conference where they are expected to name Tim Murray as GM | Fox News
 Fox News Digital Network   Fox News   Fox Business   uReport   Fox News Radio   Fox News Latino   Fox Nation   Fox News Insider Login Account You're logged in as   Profile Logout Search Site Listen to Fox News Radio Live › On Air Now › On Air Personalities ›   Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports On Air Previous Slide Next Slide Sports Home Football Basketball Hockey Baseball College Sports Tennis Nascar Golf More Sports Stats Sabres announce news conference where they are expected to name Tim Murray as GM Published January 09, 2014 Associated Press BUFFALO, N.Y. –  The Buffalo Sabres have scheduled a news conference for late Thursday morning, when it is widely anticipated they will formally announce the hiring of Ottawa Senators assistant general manager Tim Murray as their new general manager. Murray has spent the past seven seasons working for the Senators, and has 20 years of NHL experience after breaking in as a scout with the Detroit Red Wings in 1993. He is the nephew of Senators general manager Bryan Murray, who has mentored him throughout his career. Murray emerged as one of four finalists for the job last weekend in newly hired Sabres president Pat LaFontaine's two-month search process to replace Darcy Regier, who was fired in November. The announcement comes before the Sabres home game against the Florida Panthers.   Print   Email   Share   Comments Recommend Tweet Share This Article View Article You must login to comment. View Article Advertisement Trending In Sports 1 Russia launches counterterror probe after bodies, explosives found near Sochi 2 AP Source: Kiffin being considered by Alabama 3 Louisville announces it has hired Petrino as coach 4 Jay Gruden hire to coach Redskins 5 Vikings owner strikes back at NJ court ruling See all trends › Advertisement Also on the web J.R. Smith Unties Shawn Marion's Shoe as Knicks Use Schoolyard Tricks to Win Cristiano Ronaldo Talks Facing the US in the World Cup and More 5 Things We Learned From The 2013 NFL Playoffs: Wildcard Round The Denver Nuggets Prove That Not Eating Pizza Makes You Bad at Basketball The 2013 NFL Big 5: Wild Card Weekend We Can’t Stop Watching This GoPro Video Of Sochi Olympic Ski Jumper Anders Jacobsen Is Greg Maddux The Most Disgusting Person To Be Voted Into Baseball’s Hall Of Fame? Oral Roberts Has To Forfeit Two Conference Games, Because It Misread A Rule… Blake Griffin Makes Kris Humphries’ Life That Much Worse With Thunderous Posterization Fantasy Football: Checking Out Next Year’s Quarterbacks… Is Aaron Hernandez a Serial Killer? Steelers Fan in Prison Sues NFL for 'Emergency Injunction' After SD Makes Playoffs Report: Rodman Owes More than $450K in Back Taxes Digital Revolution: WWE to Launch First-Ever 24/7 Streaming Network NBC Vows It Won't Be PR Tool for Putin During Olympics Sections Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports Weather Shows A Healthy You & Carol Alt America's News HQ America's Newsroom Cavuto Fox Files Fox News Sunday Fox & Friends First Fox & Friends Fox & Friends Weekend Geraldo at Large Greta Hannity Happening Now Huckabee   Justice with Judge Jeanine Media Buzz Red Eye w/ Gutfeld Shepard Smith Reporting Special Report Specials The Cost of Freedom The Five The Journal Editorial Report The Kelly File The O' Reilly Factor The Real Story War Stories Tools Live Video Trending uReport Newsletters Alerts Blogs Mobile Podcasts Radio Fox News Store Apps & Downloads About Careers College Students Fox Around the World Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Contact Us Email Newsroom FAQ Media Relations Follow   Facebook   Twitter   Google+   LinkedIn   RSS   Newsletters This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 
