Heat, Pelicans square off in South Beach | Fox News
 Print    Close Heat, Pelicans square off in South Beach Published January 07, 2014 | Sports Network advertisement (SportsNetwork.com) - The Miami Heat will try for three consecutive victories Tuesday night when they welcome the New Orleans Pelicans to AmericanAirlines Arena. After a home setback on Thursday to the Golden State Warriors, the Heat have won two straight. They knocked off the Magic in Orlando, then topped the Toronto Raptors, 102-97, on Sunday. LeBron James netted 30 points and put the game away at the foul line. Michael Beasley scored 17 points off the bench for the Heat, winners in four of five, while Dwyane Wade added 14 and nine rebounds as he played in the second tilt of a back-to-back for the first time since Nov. 16. "The first half, there were some stretches we weren't playing hard enough defensively. They were able to shake free for some open ones," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "In the third quarter, we were playing much more competitive and they were making them, which was tough. But I like that we stayed with it mentally." Chris Bosh had 11 rebounds to go with eight points. Mario Chalmers did not play in the second half with tendinitis in his right Achilles and is listed as questionable for Tuesday. Shane Battier missed the game against Toronto and is doubtful with a left quad strain. After Tuesday's tilt, the Heat hit the road for six straight. The Pelicans have alternated wins and losses over their last six. Tuesday's contest will end a four-game road trip and the Pelicans are 1-2 on the excursion. They fell in Minnesota on New Year's Day, then dispatched the Boston Celtics by three. On Saturday night, New Orleans got clobbered by the Indiana Pacers, 99-82. Playing without leading scorer Ryan Anderson, New Orleans managed just 33 points over the final two quarters and saw an early 14-point lead evaporate. Anderson was not with the team after spending the night in a Boston hospital after suffering a cervical stinger during Friday's win over the Celtics. Eric Gordon finished with 21 points in the loss, with Alexis Ajinca adding 17 points and Tyreke Evans 12 for the Pelicans. "I think (the Pacers) picked up their energy a little bit," said Pelicans head coach Monty Williams. "It was a lesson for our guys. They just picked up and we did not." The Heat have won four straight over the Pelicans and four in a row in their own building. Print    Close URL http://www.foxnews.com/sports/2014/01/07/heat-pelicans-square-off-in-south-beach/ Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports Weather Privacy Terms This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. © 2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 
