Korver, Hawks down Pacers | Fox News
 Fox News Digital Network   Fox News   Fox Business   uReport   Fox News Radio   Fox News Latino   Fox Nation   Fox News Insider Login Account You're logged in as   Profile Logout Search Site Listen to Fox News Radio Live › On Air Now › On Air Personalities ›   Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports On Air Previous Slide Next Slide Sports Home Football Basketball Hockey Baseball College Sports Tennis Nascar Golf More Sports Stats Korver, Hawks down Pacers Published January 08, 2014 Sports Network Atlanta, GA (SportsNetwork.com) - Kyle Korver netted 17 points on just eight shots as the Atlanta Hawks continued their recent home dominance of the Indiana Pacers with a 97-87 decision on Wednesday. Korver shot 6-of-8 from the floor and extended his streak of consecutive games with a 3-pointer to 105 as Atlanta won its 12th straight over the Pacers from Philips Arena. Pero Antic matched a career-high with 16 points and Jeff Teague and Mike Scott scored 15 apiece to help the Hawks snap a three-game losing skid. DeMarre Carroll chipped in 11 points. Paul George was the lone bright spot offensively for Indiana, which played without starting shooting guard Lance Stephenson, who missed the tilt with a right knee contusion. George tallied 28 points and 12 boards in the setback. Danny Granger, making his first start since May, 2012, added 14 points. "Give the Hawks credit," said Indiana head coach Frank Vogel. "They played a better basketball game than us." Antic hit treys on consecutive possessions early on to help the Hawks to a 12-0 lead before George finally hit a 3 to get Indiana on the board nearly five minutes into the contest. "We've lost a bunch of games lately, and they've all been close," said Korver. "To have a good start against a good team at home, it was really big for us." Teague found Carroll in transition for a 16-3 edge at 4:08. The Pacers hit double figures on Rasual Butler's 3-pointer with just under a minute remaining, and Lou Williams capped the dominant opening frame with wide open corner 3 as the hosts found themselves in front, 25-12, after 12 minutes of play. The Hawks won the second quarter as well and took a 49-32 lead into the break. George was assessed a technical as frustrations mounted early in the third for Indiana. Korver potted the ensuing free throw for Atlanta's largest margin at 25 points. The lead remained in double figures until Luis Scola's putback made it 89-80 midway through the fourth quarter. Korver's jumper on the other end restored the double digit lead and Atlanta put the game away from the free throw line. Game Notes Antic has made a 3-pointer in nine straight games ... Paul Millsap, who entered averaging 19 points in five games since Al Horford went down for the season, scored just four points on 1-of-10 from the floor ... Both teams scored 34 points in the paint ... Indiana outrebounded the Hawks 46-34.   Print   Email   Share   Comments Recommend Tweet Share This Article View Article You must login to comment. View Article Advertisement Trending In Sports 1 A-Rod's suspension reduced to 162 games 2 Luck struggles as Colts lose 43-22 at Patriots 3 Welker eager for return after month away 4 Stoudemire helps Knicks past Sixers 5 Seahawks withstand Saints, reach NFC title game See all trends › Advertisement Also on the web The 2013 NFL Big 5: Divisionals! Shocker! The Baseball Hall of Fame is Still a Mess J.R. Smith Unties Shawn Marion's Shoe as Knicks Use Schoolyard Tricks to Win Cristiano Ronaldo Talks Facing the US in the World Cup and More 5 Things We Learned From The 2013 NFL Playoffs: Wildcard Round Seahawks Mess With Jimmy Graham During Pre-Game, Saints Retaliate By Trying To Kill Percy Harvin Evander Holyfield: ‘I Punched The Horse Right In The Face’ This Is The Only Reason Why There Shouldn’t Be ‘Pace Cars’ In Horse Racing REMEMBER WHEN: Mike Francesa Falls Asleep During A-Rod Interview You Break, You Buy: High School Baller Shatters Backboard Blount Force: RB Scores 4 TDs to Lead Patriots to AFC Title Game Seahawks Rumble Past Saints, 23-15 Eagles Star Robbed of More than $250K in Cash, Jewelry NBA Rain Delay: Leaky Roof Mars Rockets Win over Wizards US Unsure of Winter Olympics Security, Issues Travel Advisory to Russia Sections Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports Weather Shows A Healthy You & Carol Alt America's News HQ America's Newsroom Cavuto Fox Files Fox News Sunday Fox & Friends First Fox & Friends Fox & Friends Weekend Geraldo at Large Greta Hannity Happening Now Huckabee   Justice with Judge Jeanine Media Buzz Red Eye w/ Gutfeld Shepard Smith Reporting Special Report Specials The Cost of Freedom The Five The Journal Editorial Report The Kelly File The O' Reilly Factor The Real Story War Stories Tools Live Video Trending uReport Newsletters Alerts Blogs Mobile Podcasts Radio Fox News Store Apps & Downloads About Careers College Students Fox Around the World Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Contact Us Email Newsroom FAQ Media Relations Follow   Facebook   Twitter   Google+   LinkedIn   RSS   Newsletters This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 
