Page 2: Healthy Dose: All That Itches Is Not Yeast - ABC News
 Now Chris Christie • Pound A Day Diet • Teen Stops Suicide Bomber • Lena Dunham • Target Data Breach • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Home > Health > ABC News OnCall+ Women's Health Healthy Dose: All That Itches Is Not Yeast July 14, 2008 Page 2 of 2 A simple and reliable home test of the vaginal pH — similar to what doctors will typically use during an office visit — can help you decide whether you need to call the doctor. If your pH is low and therefore normal, you could safely try one of the many effective yeast medications that can be purchased without a prescription. If your pH test result is abnormal and high, you may have an infection or other cause that needs your doctor's expert diagnosis and advice. An appointment with your doctor in this case is important so that you get the correct diagnosis and best treatment. The bottom line for all women, however, is that if your symptoms don't go away with over-the-counter treatment for yeast infection, it is well worth your time to make an appointment to find out exactly what is wrong. Post-menopausal women with low estrogen may benefit from a vaginal hormone cream; some women may find they are allergic to something they are using and would be helped by avoiding all perfumed hygiene products and switch to hypoallergenic baby wipes rather than toilet paper. Other women may need to be treated for specific infections such as bacterial vaginosis and trichomoniasis. Have you recently been diagnosed with a vaginal infection? Have you tried the pH test at home or did you try over-the-counter yeast creams before calling your doctor? As always, I welcome your questions and comments. Dr. Marie Savard is an ABC News medical contributor. Dr. Savard's book, How to Save Your Own Life , and her entire system is available on her Web site at www.DrSavard.com. -- This embed didnt make it to copy for story id = 5359470. -- This embed didnt make it to copy for story id = 5359470. -- This embed didnt make it to copy for story id = 5359470. -- This embed didnt make it to copy for story id = 5359470. Page 1 | 2 View Single Page More from ABC News Five Tips to Goof-Proof Your Health Care Healthy Dose: Diabetes and Your Heart Healthy Dose: The Fear of Osteoporosis Healthy Dose: Summer Fitness for Seniors and More Related Topics: Yeast Infection, Asthma, Pregnancy Hormones, Emphysema, Diabetes, Menopause, Birth Control Pills, Health Care, Sexual Health, Gynecologic Health Hot Right Now 1 Parents Cry Murder After Drunk Teen Killed in Home Invasion 2 Man Jailed for Gmail Invite to Ex-Girlfriend 3 Dramatic Footage Inside Plane Plunging Into Ocean Released 4 Snooki Calls NJ Gov. Chris Christie the B-Word 5 Terrifying Video of Hawaiian Plane Crash From Inside the...   You Might Also Like... Photo Galleries View: Hotel Suite of the Week: Royal Suite at The Goring Hotel Travel View: The Extraordinary and Endearing Antics of Penguins Lifestyle View: Annual Kite Flying Festival Draws Pros From Across The Globe International View: Peek Inside a $12K-per-Night Motor Home-Turned-Hotel Travel View: See Venus Williams' $1.8M Home Business See It, Share It KTVX/ABC News Family Discovers Sperm Bank Nightmare 21 Years After Daughter's Birth US Border Patrol Inside Smuggling Tunnel on US-Mexico Border Courtesy Shirley Rupp The Weight Lifting Granny Who Floored Purse Snatcher Courtesy Shawn and Jennea Gordley Parents Cry Murder After Drunk Teen Killed in Home Invasion Syed Ijaz/AP Photo Teen Dies Saving Classmates From Suicide Bomber ruthiorio/Instagram Mom Live-Tweets Birth With Unflinching Honesty Noel Vasquez/Getty Images Hilary Duff and Husband Separate Most Commented 1 Parents Cry Murder After Drunk Teen Killed in Home Invasion 2 The Next Shoes to Drop in the Chris Christie Bridge Scandal 3 Chris Christie Fires Top Aide, Apologizes for Bridge Scandal 4 Christie Says He Couldn’t Pick Fort Lee Mayor ‘Out Of A Lineup,’ But Photo Tells A Different Story 5 US Employers May Post a 5th Month of Solid Hiring   Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
