Charles Davi - Authors - The Atlantic
 The Atlantic Subscribe Now Follow Us Politics Top Stories The Latest GOP Efforts to Gum Up Obamacare McCain Calls for NSA Chief's Head, Backs Down Immediately Christie-Martinez: Is This Your 2016 Republican Ticket? Richard Cohen in Context Richard Cohen, Meet Helen Thomas Up Next: The Obamacare Enrollment-Number Spin War Business Top Stories Being a Young Adult Is a Financial Nightmare The Workforce Is Even More Divided by Race Than You Think How Terrible Is Spirit Airlines, Really? Why Is Childcare Getting So Expensive? What Medium Will the Digital Revolution Destroy Next? Everything You Need to Know About Obamacare and 'Death Spirals' Sponsor Content From Clicks to Bricks: A pair of e-commerce entrepreneurs buck convention and go analog. Tech Top Stories The Carl Sagan of Our Time Reprises the 'Pale Blue Dot' Photo of Earth XKCD Is Amazing, but Its Latest Comic Is Wrong The Absurd Beauty of Creating Musical Turnstiles in NYC's Subway How a Sewing Machine Works, Explained in a GIF Hurray! Google Has Solved The Mystery of the Noisy Tab Twitter Might Have Been Named 'Friendstalker' Special Report: How Breakthroughs Happen Entertainment Top Stories Is Lily Allen's New Video Really That Progressive? 'We Just Sat and Held Each Other': Watching Your Life Story Onstage The Hunger Games' Perfect/Terrible Tears for Fears Cover One Way to Keep Writing: 'Remember Death' Arcade Fire Exploited Haiti, and Almost No One Noticed The Immortal Soul of the Drum Machine Sponsor Content From Eisenhower to Elvis: 10 Icons Whose Lives Shaped History Sponsor Content From MLK to Maria Callas: 10 Icons Whose Lives Shaped History Sponsor Content From Tiger Woods to Winston Churchill: 10 Icons Whose Lives Shaped History Health Top Stories Caffeine 'Addiction': A Tortured Love Huh Means the Same Thing in Every Language Letting Medical Students Run the Clinic Caffeine 'Addiction': A Tortured Love Study: Morning People Win How the Brain Creates Personality: A New Theory Special Report: Building a Better Human Sponsor Content Found in Translation: The Journey of Chef Alex Stupak Education Top Stories The Two-Year Law Degree: A Great Idea That Will Never Come to Be 'I Don’t Know Anything': Why M. Night Shyamalan Wrote a Book on Education Letting Medical Students Run the Clinic The Stereotypes About Math That Hold Americans Back How Getting Into College Became Such a Long, Frenzied, Competitive Process Good Teachers Embrace Their Students' Cultural Backgrounds Sponsor Content A New National Education Imperative Sponsor Content Securing Economic Strength Through Education Sponsor Content The Innovators Who Are Transforming U.S. Education Sexes Top Stories Women and Beer: A 4,500-Year History Is Coming Full Circle 23% of Americans Would Prefer a Female Boss (and That's a Record High) The Psychology of Giant Princess Eyes Sorry, Marriage Is a 'Luxury Good' Lake Bell on Filmmaking, Push-Up Bras, and Feminism 'Advice to a Younger Me': Female Leaders on Starting Out National Top Stories Why Aren't There More Black Federal Judges in Alabama, Florida, and Georgia? Help Veterans by Taking Them Off the Pedestal Connecting With My Father's Wartime Loss, 70 Years Later The Last Stand of the JFK Truthers Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, Defender of the Constitution Meet the Pope's New BFF Global Top Stories How Online Mapmakers Are Helping the Red Cross Save Lives in the Philippines Meet the Gadget-Wielding Techies Who Are Getting the Philippines Back Online Huh Means the Same Thing in Every Language Liberia's Top Presidential Escort Busted for Smuggling Pot With Official Jeep The Suffering of the Philippines: 2 Charities to Consider Kazakhstan's New Social Network Groups Users by Tribe Sponsor Content How Can U.S. Investors Capitalize on the Shifting Global Landscape? Sponsor Content What Does the U.S. Energy Revolution Mean for Investors? Sponsor Content Active vs. Passive Investing: Which is the Best Approach? China Top Stories China’s Intensifying Suppression of Foreign Journalism How Xi Jinping Failed at China’s Big Political Meeting China’s Brash Young Actors Swap Ideology for a Chance at Fame The Glitz and Glamour of the Scrap-Metal Trade Hong Kong's Eerie, Beautiful Hillside Cemeteries This Latest Chinese Censorship News Is Important, and Bad Video Top Stories The Dos and Don'ts of Skateboarding: A 1970s Guide The Man Behind Some of the Greatest Songs of All Time Watch a 98-Year-Old Man Create Beautiful Images in Microsoft Paint Why Messing With People Is the Best Job in the World Peek Into Late 1960s Drug Culture The Rise of the Bicycle in the 21st Century Magazine In This Month's Issue The 50 Greatest Breakthroughs Since the Wheel Who Will Tomorrow's Historians Consider Today's Greatest Inventors? The Amazon Mystery The Passion of Flannery O’Connor Why We Live 40 Years Longer Today Than We Did in 1880 Fraud Alert Regarding The Atlantic Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Editions Subscribe Newsletters E-books Apps Longreads In Focus Events Just In Richard Cohen in Context Charles Davi Charles Davi is a capital and derivatives markets lawyer in New York City. He received his J.D. from New York University School of Law and B.A. in Computer Science from Hunter College. Email How Globalization Went Pop and What It Means for Workers Business Mar 19 2013, 1:33 PM ET How do you measure how fast the world economy has "globalized"? Borrow a concept from physics. Call it global economic entropy. More » The Mystery of the Incredible Shrinking American Worker Business Feb 11 2013, 12:31 PM ET It could be the most significant economic mystery of our time: As a declining share of income goes to pay workers, are people are becoming less valuable to companies? And why? More » The U.S. Debt Crisis: A Glossary and Guide to the Key Issues in 2012 Business Dec 5 2011, 4:40 PM ET What you need to know about the debt debate that will dominate the 2012 election, thanks to the supercommittee's failure to come up with a deficit deal.Reuters.The collapse of the supercommittee in November guarantees that arguments over U.S. debt won't go away in 2012. Instead, the presidential race should only intensify partisan bickering over our debt, who's responsible for it, and what we can and should do about it.Consider this your end-of-year glossary and… More » Understanding Custom OTC Derivatives Business Nov 9 2009, 2:30 PM ET Custom derivatives aren't complex wizardry, just unfamiliar to most people. More » How Do Bubbles Create and Kill Jobs? Business Oct 7 2009, 3:20 PM ET Why do only busts cause unemployment? More » Naked Credit Default Swaps: Exposed! Business Aug 5 2009, 12:30 PM ET Understanding naked credit default swaps. More » How to Understand The Derivatives Market Business Jul 16 2009, 1:00 PM ET Our resident derivatives expert answers the call to explain the market. More » Obama's Financial Overhaul: What You Need to Know Business Jun 24 2009, 9:04 AM ET Here's what you need to know... More » Could Government Intervention Help Markets Function Better? Business May 29 2009, 1:20 PM ET Why free market zealots are just wrong. More » The Sorry State Of The Dismal Science Business May 1 2009, 8:54 AM ET John Authers' recent interview with University of Chicago professor Richard Thaler is a fine example of what I hope are broader trends in economic thought. To some, it might seem like just another interview. But Authers undoubtedly recognizes its significance. Thaler is a professor at the University of Chicago, which is the birth place of the Efficient Market Hypothesis, and Authers is a well-respected columnist for the Financial Times, which is arguably the voice… More » Credit Default Swaps and Control Rights, Redux Business Apr 20 2009, 11:41 AM ET Felix Salmon and I are usually on the same side of the jury box when it comes to the trial of credit default swaps. However, it appears we have reached an impasse concerning creditor control rights in the context of restructurings and bankruptcies. While that sounds like an awfully narrow issue to quibble about, the policy implications of this seemingly obscure issue are far reaching and call into question both the orderly functioning of the debt markets and the… More » Credit Default Swaps and Control Rights Business Apr 17 2009, 5:19 PM ET Megan McArdle asks, "Do We Hate Credit Default Swaps for The Wrong Reasons?" As Megan notes, blaming credit default swaps for all kinds of things is quite fashionable these days, since simply uttering the term makes commentators feel sophisticated. While this is itself a topic worthy of discussion, the more interesting point in Megan's article concerns how credit defaults swaps affect the incentives of bondholders in the context of restructurings. More » The Regulatory Pendulum and Electoral Guillotine Business Apr 10 2009, 3:01 PM ET The conventional wisdom is that market regulation goes through booms and busts as the public oscillates through its love-hate relationship with the capitalist ethos. When all is well, high-earning executives are the embodiment of capitalism's well-oiled wealth distribution machine at work. When all is not well, they are the embodiment of the structural deficiencies inherent in a capitalist society that favor those on top. Moving in sympathy with public sentiment,… More » The rising tide of class conflict Business Mar 20 2009, 12:53 PM ET What began as bitterness has burst into a full blown battle between the haves and the havenots. Whatever the level of tension was at the outset of this crisis, public sentiment has turned an entirely new shade of red. But it's not all bad. I'm sure this period in history will prove to be a petri dish for social scientists and political theorists for decades to come. So maybe we'll learn something from it. At a minimum, we can expect SSRN's servers to be put to… More » Home prices and the reality of mortgage modifications Business Mar 5 2009, 8:30 AM ET It seems that we have taken as an axiom the idea that if the price of a home drops below the face value of the mortgage, the borrower will default on the mortgage. That sounds like a good rule, since it's got prices dropping and people defaulting at the same time, so there's a certain intuitive appeal to it. But in reality, it makes no sense. Either the borrower can afford the mortgage based on her income alone or not. However, it does make sense if you also… More » Demon credit default swaps: the case of the synthetic security Business Jan 29 2009, 10:15 AM ET An essay on mortgage backed securities. See also The Demand For Risk And A Macroeconomic Theory of Credit Default Swaps.Mortgage backed securities allow investors to gain exposure to the housing market by taking on credit risk linked to a pool of mortgages. Although the underlying mortgages are originated by banks, the existence of investor demand for MBSs allows the originators to effectively pass the mortgages off to the investors and pocket a fee. Thus, the… More » More at the Atlantic Meet the Most Indebted Man in the World Sandy: The Aftermath Occupy Wounded Knee   Charles Davi's Archive Recent Posts All Entries Current Week Previous Week By Source All Sources Magazine Articles Blog Articles By Date Writers Ta-Nehisi Coates Richard Cohen in Context 7:01 PM ET Garance Franke-Ruta Richard Cohen, Meet Helen Thomas 4:33 PM ET Alexis C. Madrigal The Carl Sagan of Our Time Reprises the 'Pale… 4:12 PM ET Derek Thompson What Medium Will the Digital Revolution Destroy… 12:55 PM ET James Fallows The Suffering of the Philippines: 2 Charities to… Nov 11, 2013 Steve Clemons What John Kerry Should Have Said in Egypt Nov 6, 2013 The Biggest Story in Photos Super Typhoon Haiyan Devastates the Philippines Nov 11, 2013 Subscribe Now SAVE 65%! 10 issues JUST $2.45 PER COPY STATE AK AL AR AZ CA CO CT DC DE FL GA HI IA ID IL IN KS KY LA MA MD ME MI MN MO MS MT NC ND NE NH NJ NM NV NY OH OK OR PA RI SC SD TN TX UT VA VT WA WI WV WY YT Subscribe Newsletters Sign up to receive our free newsletters This Week on TheAtlantic.com ( sample) This Month in The Atlantic ( sample) Today's Top Stories on The Atlantic.com ( sample) New from In Focus: ( sample) 5 Best Columns from The Atlantic Wire ( sample) Daily Newsletter from The Atlantic Cities ( sample) I want to receive updates from our partners and sponsors ATLANTIC MEDIA Atlantic Wire Francis Bacon Work Sells for a Record-Breaking $142 Million George W. Bush Will Go on the 'Tonight Show' Next Week Hawaii Legislature Sends Same-Sex Marriage Bill to the Governor's Desk More from Atlantic Wire Atlantic Cities Some People Don't Want to Say Goodbye to the Washington Monument Scaffolding Why America Has a Mass Incarceration Problem, While Germany and the Netherlands Don't The Fight to Save a Detroit-Area Urban Farm More from Atlantic Cities Quartz 2.5 million people in the Philippines will need food assistance for at least the next six months Proof that Americans really are cutting the cable TV cord Microsoft caves in and cancels its questionable employee-ranking system More from Quartz National Journal Why Would Anyone Want to Be the Next Al Gore? House Hearing to Focus on Security in the Obamacare Exchange Libertarianism for Tweens More from National Journal Longreads What George Clooney Smells Like, According to Tom Junod 'Am I a Vulture?' Katherine Boo on Reporting and Poverty How to Steal a House More from Longreads Follow The Atlantic App store Facebook Twitter Linkedin Google Plus Tumblr RSS E-Newsletters Today's Top Stories This Week This Month New at In Focus Atlantic Cities 5 Best Columns Information FAQ Subscribe Help Masthead Store Merchandise Jobs Privacy Site Map Terms and Conditions Advertise Advertising Guidelines Press Contact Us Special Reports Atlantic Scene Ebook Events Atlantic Media Subscribe Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price STATE AK AL AR AZ CA CO CT DC DE FL GA HI IA ID IL IN KS KY LA MA MD ME MI MN MO MS MT NC ND NE NH NJ NM NV NY OH OK OR PA RI SC SD TN TX UT VA VT WA WI WV WY YT Next ► Fraud alert regarding The Atlantic Copyright © 2013 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. CDN powered by Edgecast Networks. Insights powered by Parsely . Powered by the Parse.ly Publisher Platform (P3). 
