Fox News poll: Founding Fathers would be frowning this Fourth of July | Fox News
 Menu FoxNews.com Politics Search Search Sign in to comment! Politics Home Executive Senate House of Representatives Defense Judiciary Scandals POLITICS Fox News poll: Founding Fathers would be frowning this Fourth of July By Dana BlantonPublished June 28, 2013 FoxNews.com Facebook 0 Twitter 0 LinkedIn 0 ADVERTISEMENT As Independence Day approaches, most Americans think the Founding Fathers would have had a sad celebration this year. A Fox News poll asks voters what the Founding Fathers would think of Washington these days: Fully 82 percent think they would be unhappy with how things are going there. That includes 96 percent of those who identify with the Tea Party movement, 95 percent of Republicans, 88 percent of independents and 68 percent of Democrats.   Click here to see the full results of the poll. Democrats (23 percent) are about six times as likely as Republicans (4 percent) to think the Founding Fathers would be pleased. Meanwhile, more than three-quarters of voters (77 percent) believe the United States would be a better country if we followed the ideas of the Founding Fathers and the Constitution more closely. The poll also shows people feel dubious about the nation’s political leadership.   While 35 percent say they trust the federal government, many more -- a 62 percent majority -- say they don’t.   And 71 percent of voters think the government in Washington has too much power.   Few -- just 15 percent -- approve of the job Congress is doing.  Seventy-seven percent disapprove. And President Obama’s job ratings are in negative territory: 43 percent of voters approve, while over half -- 51 percent -- disapprove. The ratings get worse when voters consider the president’s performance on specific issues.  For example, voters give Obama negative ratings on his handling of the federal deficit by a 31 percentage-point margin, on the economy he’s down by a 20-point margin and on health care his margin is negative by 14 points. The Fox News poll is based on landline and cell phone interviews with 1,012 randomly chosen registered voters nationwide and was conducted under the joint direction of Anderson Robbins Research (D) and Shaw & Company Research (R) from June 22 to June 24.  The full poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. Advertisement Politics Videos Why Christie faces political fallout over bridge scandal Big trouble for Chris Christie Political fallout from Christie scandal Phony investigation on Tea Party targeting? Greta: The tricky, tricky, tricky business of politics Trending in Politics 1 Lawyer for indicted Indian envoy says she will return home 2 US unemployment benefits extension hits snag in Senate 3 Water under the bridge? Christie aims to repair public trust after scandal 4 Krauthammer: Christie now 'hostage to the truth' over bridge scandal 5 California schoolteachers' lawsuit over mandatory union dues moving forward Advertisement Fox NewsPolitics Politics Home Executive Senate House of Representatives Defense Judiciary Scandals Presidential Approval Approve 51% Disapprove 47% More details Congressional Approval Approve 13% Disapprove 75% More details FoxNews.com Back to Top ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. All market data delayed 20 minutes. Privacy - Terms - FAQ 
