California Couple Ready to Take Quadruplets Home | Fox News
 Print    Close California Couple Ready to Take Quadruplets Home Published January 12, 2011 | FoxNews.com advertisement When Samantha Weng of Redwood Shores, Calif., went for her first ultrasound exam, she was told she was pregnant with twins. The next time, doctors told her she was carrying triplets. By her third ultrasound, Weng found out she was pregnant with quadruplets, the Mercury News reported. “It just kept going,” Weng’s husband, Wayne, said. “We just stopped having ultrasounds after that. Every time we went back, they kept telling us there’s one more!” Weng – who conceived the quadruplets naturally – delivered babies Audrey, Emma, Natalie and Isabelle on Oct. 21, 2010 at Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital at Stanford in Palo Alto, Calif. Doctors say at least one of the babies can start to come home this week. Dr. Jane Chueh, an obstetrician at Lucile Packard, said Audrey and Emma are identical twins since they shared a placenta, but it is not yet clear if Isabelle and Natalie are also identical. Quadruplets happen once every 729,000 births, she said, and the odds of four identical siblings are one in eight million. Weng said when she found out she was pregnant with four babies, she called her husband at work in tears. “I was really overwhelmed, I was shocked,” she said. Weng was hospitalized 23 weeks into her pregnancy, and the babies were born at 26 weeks via cesarean section. Each weighed less than two pounds. The girls are doing well, their parents said. Emma weighs more than five pounds, and doctors believe she can come home this week. Weng said her girls’ health is a ‘blessing,’ and she is not yet ruling out more children. "We'll keep open-minded," Weng said. "I want to have a normal pregnancy." Click here to read more on this story from the Mercury News. Print    Close URL http://www.foxnews.com/health/2011/01/12/california-couple-ready-quadruplets-home/ Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports Weather Privacy Terms This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. © 2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 
