
	Strauss-Kahn accuser will not pursue charge | News24

 News24 News. Breaking News. First LAST UPDATED: 2014-01-13, 22:08 Deadline finally set for Iran nuke agreement Iran has agreed to limit uranium enrichment and to open its nuclear programme to daily inspections by international experts starting 20 January, setting the deadline for a final agreement. Cape Town Tuesday 18-28°C Sunny. Warm. 7 day forecast Wednesday 20-25°c Sunny. Mild. Thursday 19-25°c Sunny. Mild. Friday 20-26°c Sunny. Mild. Saturday 20-26°c Sunny. Mild. Sunday 20-27°c Sunny. Warm. Monday 21-31°c Sunny. Warm. More weather from Weather24 > Brought to you by: News South Africa World Africa Entertainment Green Health Opinion Voices MyNews24 Columnists Business News Markets Personal Finance Opinion My Profile Sport News Rugby Cricket Soccer Golf Tennis Formula1 Other Sport SuperSport Live Streaming Video Highlights Tech Motoring News New Models 4x4 Formula One Motorsport Bikes Your Wheels Lifestyle Health Women Motoring Food Travel Entertainment Shop Beauty Parent Games GameZone Dating Multimedia News Sport Entertainment Motoring Women Food Parenting Travel Health Focus Zimbabwe News24 Top Stories Aids Focus Media24 Investigations Good News City Press Competitions isiZulu Ningizimu Afrika Izindaba-Zami Ezemidlalo Afrika Umhlaba Ezokuzijabulisa Ezamabhizinisi Jobs Property   Strauss-Kahn accuser will not pursue charge 2011-10-19 15:34 Pin It Read more stories about Dominique Strauss-Kahn Ex-IMF chief takes job as bank boss Strauss-Kahn to be tried for pimping DSK pimping charges may be dismissed Strauss-Kahn sex scandal film leaks online Strauss-Kahn tries to ban book DSK due for questioning in pimping case Strauss-Kahn pimping charges remain Strauss-Kahn, maid reach secret deal DSK reaches confidential deal with maid kalahari.com Dsk From award-winning "Newsweek" reporter John Solomon, the inside story of how the Strauss-Kahn has... Now R299.00 buy now Paris - French writer Tristane Banon said on Wednesday she will drop her attempt to have Dominique Strauss-Kahn prosecuted, after state prosecutors said that an alleged sexual assault happened too long ago. Banon told Canal+ television she would not ask an investigating magistrate to open a case, despite have previously threatened to pursue the case against the former IMF chief if state prosecutors refused to take up her allegation. Last week, French prosecutors halted an investigation into Banon's claim that Strauss-Kahn, a Socialist politician and family friend 30 years her senior, had tried to rape her in an unfurnished Paris flat in 2003. The magistrates said that, while Strauss-Kahn had admitted to acts "that could be qualified as sexual assault", the statute of limitations on such an offence - more minor than attempted rape - was only three years. State prosecutors said, therefore, that they would not pursue the case, but under French law Banon could still have taken her complaint directly to judges and demanded they review the evidence. She will not now do so. "Quite clearly, in the letter that the prosecutor sent me, he says that there was a sexual assault, so my status as victim is at least recognised," said the 32-year-old writer. Apology too much to ask "I remain convinced and I continue to affirm that it was an attempted rape ... you can no longer say that I'm a liar," as Strauss-Kahn had alleged. Banon said she would campaign for a bill extending the statute of limitations for sexual assault from three to 10 years to become law. "I would have expected that he would have apologised but that would be asking this man too much, I don't think that he'll do it," she said. "It's not for me to tell Mr Strauss-Kahn what he should do. I would firstly advise him to keep a low profile and for him to tell himself that from now on, he's officially a sex attacker." Strauss-Kahn's lawyers argue the prosecutor's decision to drop the case left their client "completely cleared" and supported his claim that, while he "made an advance" on Banon, he had not been violent. The former IMF director still faces a civil suit in New York, where another young woman, a hotel chamber maid, claims he tried to rape her in May. Strauss-Kahn again denied violence but admitted he had had a sexual encounter with the maid during her seven-minute visit to clean his room. He was charged in a New York court, but prosecutors dropped the case amid doubts over the woman's testimony. She is pursuing a civil case for damages. - SAPA Read more on:    tristane banon  |  dominique strauss-kahn  |  us  |  france NEXT ON NEWS24 X Car bombs kill at least 25 people in Baghdad 25 minutes ago SPONSORED: PRIME MERIDIAN DIRECT Insure a R80 000 car from as little as R263 p/m. Underwritten by RMB Structured Insurance Ltd. FSP 41040. T’s & C’s apply. Email article Print article GET NEWS24 ON: Your mobile Your Facebook profile SHARE: Facebook Twitter Google Digg Delicious Yahoo More... Read News24’s Comments Policy 24.com publishes all comments posted on articles provided that they adhere to our Comments Policy. Should you wish to report a comment for editorial review, please do so by clicking the 'Report Comment' button to the right of each comment. Comment on this story 0  comments Add your comment Thank you, your comment has been submitted. Logout Comment 0 characters remaining Share on Facebook Logout Comment 0 characters remaining Share on Facebook Loading comments... Inside News24 Pics: LÓrmarins swag The running of the 153rd Queen’s Plate took place in Cape Town. Easy Weekday Meals Happy and healthier alternative dinners in just 30 minutes! 12 worst Golden Globes gowns We're fining these stars for their lack of red carpet style. BEE bad for economy - Ramphele Mamphela Ramphele believes BEE is bad for the economy. Watch. 2014: the year to de-clutter! Oprah’s organising guru shares his tips to de-clutter Lexus RC F stunner Lexus will reveal its RC F coupe at the 2014 Detroit auto show. Uncensored live birth WARNING: GRAPHIC IMAGES. Mom tweets every step of her home birth. 6 silly pics... ...that you quickly have to see.   Welcome to News24 Login | Sign Up Get Published! UPLOAD Click here to upload your article Click here to upload your photo Click here to upload your video Most Read Most Commented News In Your Area 0% matric pass rate at expensive school ANC wants 14-year schooling period SA pastor under fire over grass-eating followers Speeding man tries to con traffic cops ANC plans to stop Zuma booing Why did US consider Mandela a terrorist? Zuma: Numsa split from ANC not a crisis SA pastor under fire over grass-eating followers ANC is losing support - survey ANC plans to stop Zuma booing [change area] News in Cape Town Vilakazi aiming to cement spot Hunters Extreme- Ultimate X- Cape Town Cape Town is the must-visit destination for 2014 Cape Town seen as number one spot to visit SA’s hold on No 1 rock-solid   Traffic Lottery Select region.. Free State KwaZulu-Natal Eastern Cape Northern Cape Mpumalanga Western Cape North West Limpopo Gauteng   Monday  Stellenbosch - 19:46 PM Road name: R310 Baden Powell Drive Both Ways ROADWORKS - traffic restrictions near Spier Wine Farm Friday  Laingsburg - 14:13 PM Road name: N1 ROADWORKS - stop / go controls between Laingsburg and Matjiesfontein   More traffic reports...   Here are the winning Lotto numbers for the 11 January draw. 4, 14, 26, 34, 39, 49 Bonus 10 Lotto Plus 4, 5, 13, 30, 44, 48 Bonus 3 SMS the word Lotto to 31222 to get Lotto numbers sent directly to your phone. The service costs just R10 per month. To unsubscribe, reply with the words Stop Lotto. More lotto numbers... Jobs in Cape Town [change area] Jobs in Western Cape region .Net C++/CLI & C# Developer – Northern Subs Cape Town – Very Competitive Market Related Salary Negot Western Cape E-Merge IT Recruitment Project Manager: Business/Tax Western Cape Progressive IT Resourcing (Pty) Ltd Market Related New Business Executive Consultant Western Cape Western Cape Profmed Market Related Browse more Cape Town jobs... Polokwane Jobs Durban Jobs Port Elizabeth Jobs Healthcare Jobs Retail Jobs Construction Jobs Register your CV... Get Job alerts in your e-mail... RECRUITERS – Advertise your jobs here Property [change area] HOUSES FOR SALE IN Cape Town, Rondebosch Houses R 4 500 000 HOUSES FOR SALE IN Cape Town, Bantry Bay Houses R 25 000 000 HOUSES FOR SALE IN Durbanville, Valmary Park Houses R 4 800 000 Travel - Look, Book, Go! Book now! Spend 2 nights in a Deluxe room at the Fairmont Zimbali Resort in Kwazulu Natal, from R3 399  per person sharing.  Includes 2-day car rental, return flights and breakfast . Fairmont Zimbali Resort Kalahari.com - shop online today Begin the detox Step into a new you this year, begin the detox. Shop now! Do you want to win your share of R12 000 worth of prizes? Of course you do! Simply purchase a Lenovo G500 notebook and you could be a winner! Check it out now! T&Cs apply. Best prices on back to school Study guides, dictionaries, laptops and tablets, backpacks, lunch boxes, water bottles and so much more. Shop now! Best books for 2014 Be the first to get your hands on these highly anticipated books of 2014. Shop now! Buy 3 Slimz products & get the cheapest FREE Detox and cleanse your body to maximise and accelerate fat breakdown potential. Offer valid while stocks last. Shop now! T&Cs apply. OLX Free Classifieds [change area] Boxed Blackberry Q10 Mobile, Cell Phones in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 Flats to rent from R1500 Real Estate, Houses - Apartments for Rent in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 urgent sale Vehicles, Cars in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 Sponsored links Enter Now for Ultimate Braai Master 2014   Metropolitan Family Funeral Plan from R36 p.m. Free Fax2Mail   Samsung Galaxy Tab P7500 10.1" Tablet With WiFi & 3G Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 gives you a better experience for... From R4999.00 I'm shopping for: Horoscopes Aquarius (20 Jan - 18 Feb) Aries (21 Mar - 20 Apr) Cancer (21Jun - 21 Jul) Capricorn (21Dec - 19 Jan) Gemini (21 May - 20 Jun) Leo (22 Jul - 21 Aug) Libra (22 Sep - 22 Oct) Pisces (19 Feb - 20 Mar) Sagittarius (22 Nov - 20 Dec) Scorpio (23 Oct - 21 Nov) Taurus (21 Apr - 20 May) Virgo (22 Aug - 21 Sep) Aquarius You're highly irritated with colleagues who are not contributing fairly to share the common workload. Instead of shooting from the... read more Aries A family or domestic situation is in limbo today and this is not something that you're bound to enjoy. Try not to let your... read more Cancer Your ruling planet is in what is called a void of course situation today. This means that you're caught in an in between... read more Capricorn Your partner seemingly is having some mood swings today and if that is something that you don’t enjoy, you need to find a way of... read more Gemini If you're keen to know where you stand financially, you have to allow for red tape to get between you and what you need to know.... read more Leo If you're feeling uneasy about something today, chances are that your gut feelings are responding to something, which as yet, you... read more Libra A work situation appears to have hit a stalemate position today. Your best repsonse to situaitons like this is always to play for... read more Pisces Rest assured that even the most talented and confident person will go through periods of self-doubt. If you're currently working... read more Sagittarius As a fire sign, you're naturally impatient, especially if it relates to anything to do with money. Today, however, no amount of... read more Scorpio A deeply philosophical question is resting heavily on your mind today. Find the time to ponder on all aspects of this matter,... read more Taurus You're asking questions, but you're not getting the answers that you desire. As frustrating as this is, you're better off to wait... read more Virgo A friend who is being evasive today probably is not doing so intentionally. There are times in one's life where one simply needs... read more Who’s your perfect match? Click here to find out!   services E-mail Alerts The latest headlines in your inbox RSS feeds News delivered really simply. Mobile News24 on your mobile or PDA E-mail Newsletters You choose what you want News24 on your iPhone Get News24 headlines on your iPhone. SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS. Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone. Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.   Search · About Us · Advertise on News24 · Terms & Conditions · Press Releases · Jobs at News24 · Contact us   © 2014 24.com. All rights reserved. There are  new stories on the homepage. Click here to see them.   News24 English Afrikaans isiZulu |   OLX  |   PriceCheck  |   Property24  |   Kalahari.com  |   Careers24   Hello  Create Profile Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24. Please provide a username for your profile page: This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network. Hello  Choose a display name: * You must provide a display name. Edit your avatar: Select an image file on your computer (max 4MB): * The image you selected could not be uploaded. Tell us a bit about yourself: * Your profile could not be saved at the moment. Please try again later.   Saving your profile   Login / SignUp Login / SignUp Settings Location Settings News24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location. If you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences, please select a location for each component and click "Submit" in order for the changes to take affect. Most Read Block Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Weather Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Traffic Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Jobs Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Property Listings Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Kalahari Listings Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Please select a value from the drop down box. Saving your settings Facebook Sign-In Hi News addict, Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news. Log in with Facebook to comment and personalise news, weather and listings.   
