
	Strong quake jolts Ecuador | News24

 News24 News. Breaking News. First LAST UPDATED: 2014-01-08, 12:01 Naked Aussie gets stuck in washing machine A naked Australian man has been left red-faced after getting stuck in a washing machine during a game of hide and seek. Cape Town Wednesday 21-24°C a few showers. Morning clouds. Mild. 7 day forecast Thursday 19-25°c Showers late. Afternoon clouds. Mild. Friday 19-23°c Showers early. More sun than clouds. Mild. Saturday 18-23°c High level clouds. Mild. Sunday 19-24°c High level clouds. Mild. Monday 18-28°c Morning clouds. Warm. Tuesday 20-28°c Sunny. Warm. More weather from Weather24 > Brought to you by: News South Africa World Africa Entertainment Green Health Opinion Voices MyNews24 Columnists Business News Markets Personal Finance Opinion My Profile Sport News Rugby Cricket Soccer Golf Tennis Formula1 Other Sport SuperSport Live Streaming Video Highlights Tech Motoring News New Models 4x4 Formula One Motorsport Bikes Your Wheels Lifestyle Health Women Motoring Food Travel Entertainment Shop Beauty Parent Games GameZone Dating Multimedia News Sport Entertainment Motoring Women Food Parenting Travel Health Focus Zimbabwe News24 Top Stories Aids Focus Media24 Investigations Good News City Press Competitions isiZulu Ningizimu Afrika Izindaba-Zami Ezemidlalo Afrika Umhlaba Ezokuzijabulisa Ezamabhizinisi Jobs Property   Strong quake jolts Ecuador 2005-05-21 20:38 Pin It Quito - A strong earthquake measuring 6.1 on the Richter scale jolted several cities in Ecuador early on Saturday, but there were no immediate reports of injuries, authorities said. The temblor at about 05:10 GMT was located off the coast beneath the Pacific Ocean, the Geophysics Institute said. Meanwhile, authorities in neighbouring Colombia raised the alert on the Galeras volcano, near the border with Ecuador, which they said could erupt "in days or weeks". "The volcano is at level-two activity, which means there could be an eruption in days or weeks, unless activity eases," said Eduardo Zuniga, governor of Colombia's Narino department. - AFP NEXT ON NEWS24 X US polar vortex creates record lows, 21 dead 13 minutes ago Email article Print article GET NEWS24 ON: Your mobile Your Facebook profile SHARE: Facebook Twitter Google Digg Delicious Yahoo More... Read News24’s Comments Policy Inside News24 Worst Golden Globe looks ever! What were these stars thinking? Best beaches for 2014 The best spots around the world to soak up the sun. Find the perfect bra It's not as easy as one thinks. Here's what to do. Award Season 2014! 10 great Golden Globes facts! 24 hours with a newborn This is what the typical day (and night) with a newborn baby looks like. 9 most adorable animal pics of 2013 These baby animals who were born in 2013 will melt your heart! Easy weekday meals Make getting back to work easy with 5 recipes in under 30 minutes. My firepool crisis My pool is in chemical lockdown, and so are my finances.   Welcome to News24 Login | Sign Up Get Published! UPLOAD Click here to upload your article Click here to upload your photo Click here to upload your video Most Read Most Commented News In Your Area Officials act after woman takes bath in pothole Well-known local TV news woman dead at 46 More e-toll surprises Township schools outperform model C schools Motorists now see value of e-tags - Sanral Officials act after woman takes bath in pothole God’s Judgment of Canaanites: Immoral? Modise's R1.3m car 'an insult to the poor' Zuma contributes to Zulu bible translation Did JESUS Exist? [change area] News in Cape Town Camps Bay gets new Japanese restuarant Good start for Cape Town tourist season Mansions of the rich Bafana unscathed in warm-up Steyn given extra time off   9 exercise myths busted How hard should you push yourself? Does more sweat mean you burned more fat? A sports scientist addresses 9 of the most common exercise myths.   Best of 2013 | Holiday | WIN: Summer snaps   Time for summer fun... Best TV show of 2013 Best Wins of 2013 Ron Burgandy reveals Yahoo’s top internet searches of 2013 Best Celeb Beach Bodies   Traffic Lottery Select region.. Free State KwaZulu-Natal Eastern Cape Northern Cape Mpumalanga Western Cape North West Limpopo Gauteng   Wednesday  Claremont - 11:10 AM Road name: Govan Mbeki (Lansdowne) Road TRAFFIC LIGHTS not working at Belvedere Road Wednesday  Laingsburg - 09:04 AM Road name: N1 ROAD RE-OPENED to traffic between Laingsburg and Prince Albert Road after earlier flooding - motorists urged to proceed with caution   More traffic reports...   Here are the winning Powerball numbers from the Tuesday, 7 January draw.  28, 37, 39, 43, 44 Powerball 18 SMS the word Powerball to 31222 to get lotto numbers sent directly to your phone. The service costs just R10 per month. To unsubscribe, reply with the words Stop Powerball. More lotto numbers... Jobs in Cape Town [change area] Jobs in Western Cape region Junior Account Manager - eMarketing Western Cape U'R Staffing Solutions (Pty) Ltd Market Related Accounts Assistant Western Cape Expro Gulf Limited Market Related Service Consultant Western Cape Santam Market Related Browse more Cape Town jobs... Gauteng Jobs Mahikeng Jobs Polokwane Jobs Legal Jobs Hotel Jobs IT Jobs Register your CV... Get Job alerts in your e-mail... RECRUITERS – Advertise your jobs here Property [change area] HOUSES FOR SALE IN Somerset West, Meerhof Estate Houses R 2 950 000 HOUSES FOR SALE IN Cape Town, Claremont Houses R 2 975 000 HOUSES FOR SALE IN Cape Town, Bantry Bay Houses R 25 000 000 Travel - Look, Book, Go! Book now! Spend 2 nights in a Deluxe room at the Fairmont Zimbali Resort in Kwazulu Natal, from R3 399  per person sharing.  Includes 2-day car rental, return flights and breakfast . Fairmont Zimbali Resort Kalahari.com - shop online today Best prices on back to school Study guides, dictionaries, laptops and tablets, backpacks, lunch boxes, water bottles and so much more. Shop now! Deal of the week! Nikon D5100 bundle, now R7399 Stimulate your creativity. The NIKON D5100 offers a host of new photographic and video tools that deliver superior performance and exceptional image quality with surprising versatility. Now R7399. Save R800. Offer valid while stocks last. Buy now! Up to 30% off textbooks Start the new academic year with up to 30% off textbooks. Offer valid while stocks last. Shop now! Fitness products Step into a new you in 2014, begin with fitness. Shop now! Best books for 2014 Be the first to get your hands on these highly anticipated books of 2014. Shop now! OLX Free Classifieds [change area] Boxed Blackberry Q10 Mobile, Cell Phones in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 Flats to rent from R1500 Real Estate, Houses - Apartments for Rent in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 urgent sale Vehicles, Cars in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 Sponsored links Enter Now for Ultimate Braai Master 2014   Metropolitan Family Funeral Plan from R36 p.m. Free Fax2Mail   BlackBerry Bold 9790 Bold Design The BlackBerry Bold 9790 smartphone combines the iconic BlackBerry... From R3049.00 I'm shopping for: Horoscopes Aquarius (20 Jan - 18 Feb) Aries (21 Mar - 20 Apr) Cancer (21Jun - 21 Jul) Capricorn (21Dec - 19 Jan) Gemini (21 May - 20 Jun) Leo (22 Jul - 21 Aug) Libra (22 Sep - 22 Oct) Pisces (19 Feb - 20 Mar) Sagittarius (22 Nov - 20 Dec) Scorpio (23 Oct - 21 Nov) Taurus (21 Apr - 20 May) Virgo (22 Aug - 21 Sep) Aquarius Chances are that the developments of today require that you make a necessary sacrifice. Since you’re already inclined to suffer in... read more Aries Listen attentively to what is being said and talked about at work today. Chances are that if you really pay attention, you will be... read more Cancer Love is sweet for you today and whether you whisper tender words in his/her ear or whether you write a love letter or poem, it... read more Capricorn Venus (love) and Mercury (communication) combine in your sign today, which means that you are both receptive and interested to... read more Gemini It’s a great day for communication especially over difficult or touchy topics. Your challenge is to stay as objective and detached... read more Leo Your ability to get along with fellow employees today is getting a necessary boost. If you’re able to be less critical and more... read more Libra Knuckle down and get that plan you have for home improvements or alterations sorted out so that you know where you stand... read more Pisces It’s a fun day to be socialising with friends, whether these are real friends or virtual friends. If you’re keen to meet a new... read more Sagittarius You’re in a great position to make headway with a financial plan or strategy that you have been working on for a while now.... read more Scorpio You’re more than happy to spend some time with the people you’re closest to in your life today. Chances are that over and above... read more Taurus You could feel like you are in la-la land today, so strong is your desire for daydreaming. Allocate some time to this instead of... read more Virgo It’s not that you live in a make-belief world, but rather that you enjoy entertaining all sorts of possibilities. Today’s a great... read more Who’s your perfect match? Click here to find out!   services E-mail Alerts The latest headlines in your inbox RSS feeds News delivered really simply. Mobile News24 on your mobile or PDA E-mail Newsletters You choose what you want News24 on your iPhone Get News24 headlines on your iPhone. SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS. Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone. Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.   Search · About Us · Advertise on News24 · Terms & Conditions · Press Releases · Jobs at News24 · Contact us   © 2014 24.com. All rights reserved. There are  new stories on the homepage. Click here to see them.   News24 English Afrikaans isiZulu |   OLX  |   PriceCheck  |   Property24  |   Kalahari.com  |   Careers24   Hello  Create Profile Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24. Please provide a username for your profile page: This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network. Hello  Choose a display name: * You must provide a display name. Edit your avatar: Select an image file on your computer (max 4MB): * The image you selected could not be uploaded. Tell us a bit about yourself: * Your profile could not be saved at the moment. Please try again later.   Saving your profile   Login / SignUp Login / SignUp Settings Location Settings News24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location. If you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences, please select a location for each component and click "Submit" in order for the changes to take affect. Most Read Block Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Weather Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Traffic Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Jobs Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Property Listings Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Kalahari Listings Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Please select a value from the drop down box. Saving your settings Facebook Sign-In Hi News addict, Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news. Log in with Facebook to comment and personalise news, weather and listings.   
