
	Swiss tourist gang-raped in India | News24

 News24 News. Breaking News. First LAST UPDATED: 2014-01-10, 22:48 Aussie man faces cockroach-in-ear agony A man in Australia has endured a painful hospital visit after a large cockroach burrowed into his ear and his efforts to suck it out with a vacuum cleaner failed. Cape Town Saturday 18-24°C Morning clouds. Mild. 7 day forecast Sunday 19-24°c Sunny. Mild. Monday 19-26°c Sunny. Mild. Tuesday 19-29°c Sunny. Warm. Wednesday 22-26°c Sunny. Mild. Thursday 21-26°c Sunny. Mild. Friday 19-24°c Scattered clouds. Mild. More weather from Weather24 > Brought to you by: News South Africa World Africa Entertainment Green Health Opinion Voices MyNews24 Columnists Business News Markets Personal Finance Opinion My Profile Sport News Rugby Cricket Soccer Golf Tennis Formula1 Other Sport SuperSport Live Streaming Video Highlights Tech Motoring News New Models 4x4 Formula One Motorsport Bikes Your Wheels Lifestyle Health Women Motoring Food Travel Entertainment Shop Beauty Parent Games GameZone Dating Multimedia News Sport Entertainment Motoring Women Food Parenting Travel Health Focus Zimbabwe News24 Top Stories Aids Focus Media24 Investigations Good News City Press Competitions isiZulu Ningizimu Afrika Izindaba-Zami Ezemidlalo Afrika Umhlaba Ezokuzijabulisa Ezamabhizinisi Jobs Property   Swiss tourist gang-raped in India 2013-03-16 11:49 Pin It An indian anti-rape protester. (File, AFP) Multimedia   ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures Send us your pictures  ·  Send us your stories Related Links 'Historic' UN statement on women secured 2 women abducted, gang-raped near Delhi Delhi rape suspect died from hanging kalahari.com An ABC of Indian Culture A Personal Padyatra of Half a Century into India Now R170.00 buy now New Delhi - A group of eight men allegedly raped a 39-year-old Swiss tourist and assaulted her husband in the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh, police said on Saturday. The crime took place at a village near Datia town late Friday, said district superintendent of police CS Solanki. The couple were travelling by bicycle from the temple town of Orchha to Seonda when they stopped to camp near the village for the night, Solanki said. Eight men attacked the couple with wooden sticks, beat up and overpowered the husband and raped the woman, according to the complaint made by the husband, Solanki said. They also looted the couple's belongings before fleeing, Solanki added. The woman had been admitted to a hospital in the nearby town of Gwalior, with preliminary tests confirming that she had been raped, NDTV news channel reported, citing police sources. Solanki said eight people had been detained for questioning in connection with the incident but that police were still searching for all of the attackers. The rising number of rape cases in India has been a cause of concern, especially after a 23-year-old woman was gang raped in a moving bus in the Indian capital in December 2012. A total of 24 206 cases of rape were reported in 2011, according to government data. The figures for 2012 have not yet been collated. - SAPA Read more on:    india  |  india bus rape NEXT ON NEWS24 X Argentina man kept dead ‘mummy’ in kitchen 2014-01-10 22:25 SPONSORED: PRIME MERIDIAN DIRECT Insure a R80 000 car from as little as R263 p/m. Underwritten by RMB Structured Insurance Ltd. FSP 41040. T’s & C’s apply. Email article Print article GET NEWS24 ON: Your mobile Your Facebook profile SHARE: Facebook Twitter Google Digg Delicious Yahoo More... Read News24’s Comments Policy 24.com publishes all comments posted on articles provided that they adhere to our Comments Policy. Should you wish to report a comment for editorial review, please do so by clicking the 'Report Comment' button to the right of each comment. Comment on this story 51  comments Add your comment Thank you, your comment has been submitted. Logout Comment 0 characters remaining Share on Facebook Logout Comment 0 characters remaining Share on Facebook Loading comments... Inside News24 2014: the year to de-clutter! Oprah’s organising guru shares his tips to de-clutter Lexus RC F stunner Lexus will reveal its RC F coupe at the 2014 Detroit auto show. Bafana gear up for CHAN 2014 Watch Bafana Bafana prepare for CHAN 2014 Uncensored live birth WARNING: GRAPHIC IMAGES. Mom tweets every step of her home birth. 6 silly pics... ...that you quickly have to see. Reality TV couples: then and now Are they still together? Latest from Dakar Rally Catch up on the latest off-road racing action from the 2014 Dakar Rally. Japanese food poisoning investigation Police probe after company disregards proper testing procedures.   Welcome to News24 Login | Sign Up Get Published! UPLOAD Click here to upload your article Click here to upload your photo Click here to upload your video Most Read Most Commented News In Your Area Concerns over Zuma's 'attack' on Constitution We must learn from Zimbabwe, says Malema 6 silly pics from the People's Choice Awards you quickly have to see True leaders don't walk away from booing - Mantashe MEC in blue-light trauma Wear only ANC colours: Mchunu We must learn from Zimbabwe, says Malema Concerns over Zuma's 'attack' on Constitution Malema: EFF plan to win 2014 elections Zuma vows ANC will rule 'forever' [change area] News in Cape Town Cape Town tops prestigious NY Times travel list for 2014 Adams backs Levi to fire Stormers give S15 squad clue Woman falls off bike, run over by truck Stormers to include Kings back   Best solo singer of 2013 Find out what was hot and what was not in the entertainment industry in 2013.   Best of 2013 | Holiday | WIN: Summer snaps   Time for summer fun... Best up-and-comer of 2013 is .... How to host a backyard movie night 5 really fun date ideas for this weekend The strangest visa questions   Traffic Lottery Select region.. Free State KwaZulu-Natal Eastern Cape Northern Cape Mpumalanga Western Cape North West Limpopo Gauteng   Friday  Kraaifontein - 17:43 PM Road name: Brighton Road TRAFFIC LIGHTS not working at the N1 Highway Interchange Friday  Bellville - 17:39 PM Road name: Peter Barlow Road TRAFFIC LIGHTS not working at the bridge   More traffic reports...   Here are the winning Powerball numbers from the 10 January draw. 4, 7, 24, 36, 39   Powerball   7 SMS the word Powerball to 31222 to get lotto numbers sent directly to your phone. The service costs just R10 per month. To unsubscribe, reply with the words Stop Powerball.   More lotto numbers... Jobs in Cape Town [change area] Jobs in Western Cape region Sales Consultants Western Cape Teleresources Staffing Market Related Compliance Administrator Western Cape 1st Contact Market Related Events Co-Ordinator Western Cape Cozens Recruitment Services ( Western Cape) Market Related Browse more Cape Town jobs... East London Jobs KwaZulu Natal Jobs Polokwane Jobs Healthcare Jobs Call Centre Jobs Mining Jobs Register your CV... Get Job alerts in your e-mail... RECRUITERS – Advertise your jobs here Property [change area] HOUSES FOR SALE IN Durbanville, Valmary Park Houses R 4 800 000 TOWNHOUSES FOR SALE IN Cape Town, Muizenberg Townhouses R 1 200 000 HOUSES FOR SALE IN Stellenbosch, Die Boord Houses R 3 850 000 Travel - Look, Book, Go! Book now! Spend 2 nights in a Deluxe room at the Fairmont Zimbali Resort in Kwazulu Natal, from R3 399  per person sharing.  Includes 2-day car rental, return flights and breakfast . Fairmont Zimbali Resort Kalahari.com - shop online today Best prices on back to school Study guides, dictionaries, laptops and tablets, backpacks, lunch boxes, water bottles and so much more. Shop now! Save up 20% on the top 20 games Save up to 20% on big gaming titles like Grand Theft Auto 5 (GTA V), FIFA 14, Battlefield 4 and many more. Offer valid while stocks last. Shop now! Deal of the week! Nikon D5100 bundle, now R7399 Stimulate your creativity. The NIKON D5100 offers a host of new photographic and video tools that deliver superior performance and exceptional image quality with surprising versatility. Now R7399. Save R800. Offer valid while stocks last. Buy now! Fitness products Step into a new you in 2014, begin with fitness. Shop now! Best books for 2014 Be the first to get your hands on these highly anticipated books of 2014. Shop now! OLX Free Classifieds [change area] Boxed Blackberry Q10 Mobile, Cell Phones in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 Flats to rent from R1500 Real Estate, Houses - Apartments for Rent in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 urgent sale Vehicles, Cars in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 Sponsored links Enter Now for Ultimate Braai Master 2014   Metropolitan Family Funeral Plan from R36 p.m. Free Fax2Mail   Nokia N8 Take amazing photos and videos, connect to your favourite social... From R3095.00 I'm shopping for: Horoscopes Aquarius (20 Jan - 18 Feb) Aries (21 Mar - 20 Apr) Cancer (21Jun - 21 Jul) Capricorn (21Dec - 19 Jan) Gemini (21 May - 20 Jun) Leo (22 Jul - 21 Aug) Libra (22 Sep - 22 Oct) Pisces (19 Feb - 20 Mar) Sagittarius (22 Nov - 20 Dec) Scorpio (23 Oct - 21 Nov) Taurus (21 Apr - 20 May) Virgo (22 Aug - 21 Sep) Aquarius You’re a thoughtful person who often reflects on the true nature of life. Your own personal philosopicahl and/or spirital... read more Aries You have a unique opportunity today to make something concrete of an offer at work. This might not be too obvious and in fact, you... read more Cancer It is an excellent day for both you and your better half to put onto the table your likes and dislikes as far as your home and... read more Capricorn You’re in your element today and seemingly are getting all the accolades and recognition of a job well done. Either way, it is an... read more Gemini Whatever creative skills you need to enrich your life does not lie outside of yourself, but inside. Perhaps you have not paid... read more Leo If you’re feeling somewhat overwhelmed by the many tasks you have to complete, you’ll quickly realise that today is an excellent... read more Libra Whether or not it is by a process of elimination, but you’re getting a much clearer picture of what you do and do not want in your... read more Pisces You’re no stranger to having to learn lessons from other people. Today, however, you’re quite alert to what you can and cannot... read more Sagittarius If you’re impressed by what a friend has achieved financially, there is nothing wrong in copying his/her style. It is said that... read more Scorpio A charitable deed is exactly that, something you do for another human being without telling the whole world you have done so. It... read more Taurus It’s up to you to be more entrepreneurial if you wish to make progress and earn more money. Consider whether a course of study... read more Virgo You fully understand the importance of money in your life. If you can accept that we are not all born equally, you won’t feel... read more Who’s your perfect match? Click here to find out!   services E-mail Alerts The latest headlines in your inbox RSS feeds News delivered really simply. Mobile News24 on your mobile or PDA E-mail Newsletters You choose what you want News24 on your iPhone Get News24 headlines on your iPhone. SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS. Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone. Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.   Search · About Us · Advertise on News24 · Terms & Conditions · Press Releases · Jobs at News24 · Contact us   © 2014 24.com. All rights reserved. There are  new stories on the homepage. Click here to see them.   News24 English Afrikaans isiZulu |   OLX  |   PriceCheck  |   Property24  |   Kalahari.com  |   Careers24   Hello  Create Profile Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24. Please provide a username for your profile page: This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network. Hello  Choose a display name: * You must provide a display name. Edit your avatar: Select an image file on your computer (max 4MB): * The image you selected could not be uploaded. Tell us a bit about yourself: * Your profile could not be saved at the moment. Please try again later.   Saving your profile   Login / SignUp Login / SignUp Settings Location Settings News24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location. If you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences, please select a location for each component and click "Submit" in order for the changes to take affect. Most Read Block Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Weather Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Traffic Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Jobs Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Property Listings Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Kalahari Listings Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Please select a value from the drop down box. Saving your settings Facebook Sign-In Hi News addict, Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news. Log in with Facebook to comment and personalise news, weather and listings.   
