
	'Syria chemical stocks threaten Israel' | News24

 News24 News. Breaking News. First LAST UPDATED: 2013-11-13, 16:58 GALLERY: Typhoon Haiyan devastation Thousands of survivors of Typhoon Haiyan have flocked to airports hoping to leave disaster-struck areas as others beg for help and medicine. See all the pictures. Cape Town Thursday 15-21°C Morning clouds. Mild. 7 day forecast Friday 15-23°c Rain late. Mostly cloudy. Mild. Saturday 18-19°c Heavy rain. Mostly cloudy. Mild. Sunday 18-22°c Light rain. Morning clouds. Mild. Monday 17-22°c Mostly sunny. Mild. Tuesday 17-22°c Sunny. Mild. Wednesday 17-21°c Sunny. Mild. More weather from Weather24 > Brought to you by: News South Africa World Africa Entertainment Green Health Opinion Voices MyNews24 Columnists Business News Markets Personal Finance Opinion My Profile Sport News Rugby Cricket Soccer Golf Tennis Formula1 Other Sport SuperSport Live Streaming Video Highlights Tech Motoring News New Models 4x4 Formula One Motorsport Bikes Your Wheels Lifestyle Health Women Motoring Food Travel Entertainment Shop Beauty Parent Games GameZone Dating Multimedia News Sport Entertainment Motoring Women Food Parenting Travel Health Focus Zimbabwe News24 Top Stories Aids Focus Media24 Investigations Good News City Press Competitions isiZulu Ningizimu Afrika Izindaba-Zami Ezemidlalo Afrika Umhlaba Ezokuzijabulisa Ezamabhizinisi Jobs Property   'Syria chemical stocks threaten Israel' 2012-06-11 11:05 Pin It Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. (File photo, AP) Multimedia   ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures Send us your pictures  ·  Send us your stories Related Links Syria will become a 'failed state' Israel ends silence on Syria bloodshed Assad 'doomed', says Israel's Barak Israel offers aid via ICRC to Syria Israel gets ready for Syria refugees Israel urges tougher action against Assad kalahari.com Syria Options and Implications for Lebanon and the Region Now R196.00 buy now Jerusalem - Israel's deputy military chief is warning that Syria has the biggest chemical weapons stocks in the world and missiles and rockets that can reach any point in Israel. Major General Yair Naveh also said if Syria had the chance, it would "treat us the same way it treats its own people". Israel radio stations carried Naveh's remarks on Monday. He made them the night before at a ceremony in Jerusalem commemorating fallen soldiers. Syrian activists estimate more than 13 000 people have died since the uprising in Syria erupted 15 months ago. Israel has been watching the carnage in neighbouring Syria with increasing concern. The two countries have fought major wars and Syria backs violent anti-Israel groups. Multiple attempts to reach a peace deal have failed. - AP Read more on:    syria  |  israel  |  middle east peace  |  syria conflict  |  uprisings NEXT ON NEWS24 X 'Spy in the bag' probably died in accident 8 minutes ago SPONSORED: PRIME MERIDIAN DIRECT Insure a R80 000 car from as little as R263 p/m. Underwritten by RMB Structured Insurance Ltd. FSP 41040. T’s & C’s apply. Email article Print article GET NEWS24 ON: Your mobile Your Facebook profile SHARE: Facebook Twitter Google Digg Delicious Yahoo More... Read News24’s Comments Policy 24.com publishes all comments posted on articles provided that they adhere to our Comments Policy. Should you wish to report a comment for editorial review, please do so by clicking the 'Report Comment' button to the right of each comment. Comment on this story 5  comments Add your comment Thank you, your comment has been submitted. Logout Comment 0 characters remaining Share on Facebook Logout Comment 0 characters remaining Share on Facebook Loading comments...   Inside News24 5 celebs you HAVE to see What are your fave stars wearing? Honey-glazed pork shoulder Guinness and honey-glazed pork shoulder. Underrated islands Already done Mauritius and Seychelles? You could head to one of these next. Quorn: pros and cons It looks like chicken; it tastes like chicken. But what is it? Early C-sections? Women are allegedly opting to preserve their bodies. Amazing 3D tattoos Some of these tattoos are so real, it will actually freak you out. Flaming hot! 9 hot pics from the Hunger Games premiere! Hotel room must-dos Five essentials to do when staying in a hotel room.   Welcome to News24 Login | Sign Up Get Published! UPLOAD Click here to upload your article Click here to upload your photo Click here to upload your video Most Read Most Commented News In Your Area Doctor raped while jogging Warning after blast: 'Blood will flow' Woman dies watching granddaughter dance to victory 2 killed in blast near Eastgate mall Ramaphosa explains Boer comment Huge opposition to McBride choice Ramaphosa explains Boer comment McBride recommended as IPID boss Doctor raped while jogging Ramaphosa stuck in the dark ages - DA [change area] News in Cape Town Man denies raping, killing prostitute Murder suspect hits out at cameraman Dance winner goes into hiding after threats SA TV show winner goes into hiding after threats Boy, 11, drowns at Muizenberg Beach   Anchorman 2 trailer - The legend continues The official trailer of Anchorman 2 has been released and as always Ron Burgundy does not disappoint.   Gadgets & Gear | Eye Candy | Win   This one is for the guys... Hottie of the day: Avna This is mountain biking at the next level! 8 dieting hurdles for men What NOT to say to your girlfriend   Traffic Lottery Select region.. KwaZulu-Natal Western Cape Gauteng Free State North West Eastern Cape Northern Cape Mpumalanga Limpopo   Wednesday  Goodwood - 16:53 PM Road name: N1 Service Road Outbound SLOW TRAFFIC between Sable Road and the N7 Interchange Wednesday  Brackenfell - 16:52 PM Road name: N1 Outbound SLOW TRAFFIC between the R300 Highway Interchange and Brackenfell Boulevard   More traffic reports...   Here are the winning Powerball numbers from the Tuesday, 12 November draw. 2, 15, 22, 33, 35  Powerball 16 SMS the word Powerball to 31222 to get lotto numbers sent directly to your phone. The service costs just R10 per month. To unsubscribe, reply with the words Stop Powerball. More lotto numbers... Jobs in Cape Town [change area] Jobs in Western Cape region Intermediate .Net Dev – Northern Suburbs Cape Town – R25k/ R40k Western Cape E-Merge IT Recruitment R25000 - R40000 Senior Accountant Western Cape Tower Group (PTY) Ltd R25000 Pharmacy Positions available - Perm and Temp Western Cape Ambition Recruitment Services Limited Browse more Cape Town jobs... Port Elizabeth Jobs Pietermaritzburg Jobs Johannesburg Jobs Call Centre Jobs Admin Jobs Engineering Jobs Register your CV... Get Job alerts in your e-mail... RECRUITERS – Advertise your jobs here Property [change area] HOUSES FOR SALE IN Polokwane, Bendor Houses R 3 049 000 HOUSES FOR SALE IN Witbank, Reyno Ridge Houses R 2 100 000 APARTMENTS / FLATS FOR SALE IN Ballito, Zimbali Coastal Estate Apartments / Flats R 3 975 000 Travel - Look, Book, Go! Book now! Spend 7 nights at the brand new Centara Grand Azuri Resort and Spa in Mauritius from R16 580 per person sharing. Includes accommodation, return flights, airport transfers and selected drinks. Centara Grand Azuri, Mauritius Kalahari.com - shop online today Hot deal of the week! Asus Nexus 7” 3G Tablet + FREE cover Now R2999 If you are looking for an affordable tablet with exceptional features, design and outstanding performance then look no further. Offer valid while stocks last. Now R2999. Buy now! Hot new music! 2 CDs for R199 – As seen on TV Get the hottest new music for R199, choose from hit albums like Katy Perry’s Prism, Lady Gaga’s Artpop,True by Avicii and many more. Offer valid while stocks last. Buy now! Hottest summer reads Wilbur Smith’s Vicious Circle, The Signature of All Things by Elizaberth Gilberth, The French Affair by Jan Hendrik van de Westhuizen and more. Shop now! 57cm compact kettle braai now R2099 Get the sensational Weber 57cm Black One – Touch Silver “Original” + FREE vinyl cover and a set of standard tongs for only R2099, save R380. Offer valid while stocks last. Buy now! The hottest toys for festive Get the hottest toys this festive season + get FREE delivery on all orders. Shop now! OLX Free Classifieds [change area] Boxed Blackberry Q10 Mobile, Cell Phones in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 Flats to rent from R1500 Real Estate, Houses - Apartments for Rent in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 urgent sale Vehicles, Cars in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 Sponsored links Metropolitan Family Funeral Plan from R36 p.m.   Free Fax2Mail BlackBerry Bold 9790 Bold Design The BlackBerry Bold 9790 smartphone combines the iconic BlackBerry... From R3119.00 I'm shopping for: Horoscopes Aquarius (20 Jan - 18 Feb) Aries (21 Mar - 20 Apr) Cancer (21Jun - 21 Jul) Capricorn (21Dec - 19 Jan) Gemini (21 May - 20 Jun) Leo (22 Jul - 21 Aug) Libra (22 Sep - 22 Oct) Pisces (19 Feb - 20 Mar) Sagittarius (22 Nov - 20 Dec) Scorpio (23 Oct - 21 Nov) Taurus (21 Apr - 20 May) Virgo (22 Aug - 21 Sep) Aquarius If you are keen to expand your knowledge on a certain topic or subject, these days there are so many options to choose from. All... read more Aries You might feel a little touchy today. As a result, you could feel insulted by something that really was meant to be harmless. Give... read more Cancer If you find yourself a little more in the spotlight today than usually, it will be helpful not to suffer from stage fright. This... read more Capricorn You are probably the most ambitious of all the signs, which is why your sign is known for career achievement. Today, however, is... read more Gemini From time to time, it is really enjoyable to connect with old friends. Today is one of those days whereby you could socialise till... read more Leo With travelling on your mind, you could give your imagination wings and dream of faraway destinations. Luckily, you have an... read more Libra Today is a day to appreciate your partner’s idiosyncrasies and to chuckle at them instead of getting annoyed by them. We all have... read more Pisces Most people get a kick out of doing some retail shopping and why should you be any different? Today, however, you need to match... read more Sagittarius Play and enjoyment are high on your agenda at the best of times, but today, you seem to be seeking it out actively. Another facet... read more Scorpio Be more aware of the things you do out of habit every day so that you can determine whether the routines you follow are serving... read more Taurus As an earth sign, you tend to believe in what you can see and touch. That makes it very difficult though for you to trust your... read more Virgo If you find yourself constantly worried about your debt and finances, you’ll only make yourself more miserable than is necessary.... read more Who’s your perfect match? Click here to find out!   services E-mail Alerts The latest headlines in your inbox RSS feeds News delivered really simply. Mobile News24 on your mobile or PDA E-mail Newsletters You choose what you want News24 on your iPhone Get News24 headlines on your iPhone. SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS. Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone. Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.   Search · About Us · Advertise on News24 · Terms & Conditions · Press Releases · Jobs at News24 · Contact us   © 2013 24.com. All rights reserved. There are  new stories on the homepage. Click here to see them.   News24 English Afrikaans isiZulu |   OLX  |   PriceCheck  |   Property24  |   Kalahari.com  |   Careers24   Hello  Create Profile Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24. Please provide a username for your profile page: This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network. Hello  Choose a display name: * You must provide a display name. Edit your avatar: Select an image file on your computer (max 4MB): * The image you selected could not be uploaded. Tell us a bit about yourself: * Your profile could not be saved at the moment. Please try again later.   Saving your profile   Login / SignUp Login / SignUp Settings Location Settings News24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location. If you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences, please select a location for each component and click "Submit" in order for the changes to take affect. Most Read Block Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Weather Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Traffic Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Jobs Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Property Listings Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Kalahari Listings Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Please select a value from the drop down box. Saving your settings Facebook Sign-In Hi News addict, Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news. Log in with Facebook to comment and personalise news, weather and listings.   
