
	Syria chemical weapons claim 'serious' | News24

 News24 News. Breaking News. First LAST UPDATED: 2013-11-13, 10:00 GALLERY: Typhoon Haiyan devastation Thousands of survivors of Typhoon Haiyan have flocked to airports hoping to leave disaster-struck areas as others beg for help and medicine. See all the pictures. Cape Town Wednesday 17-22°C Morning clouds. Mild. 7 day forecast Thursday 16-21°c More sun than clouds. Mild. Friday 16-23°c Passing showers. Mostly cloudy. Mild. Saturday 18-19°c Numerous showers. Mostly cloudy. Mild. Sunday 18-22°c More sun than clouds. Mild. Monday 17-21°c Sunny. Mild. Tuesday 17-22°c Sunny. Mild. More weather from Weather24 > Brought to you by: News South Africa World Africa Entertainment Green Health Opinion Voices MyNews24 Columnists Business News Markets Personal Finance Opinion My Profile Sport News Rugby Cricket Soccer Golf Tennis Formula1 Other Sport SuperSport Live Streaming Video Highlights Tech Motoring News New Models 4x4 Formula One Motorsport Bikes Your Wheels Lifestyle Health Women Motoring Food Travel Entertainment Shop Beauty Parent Games GameZone Dating Multimedia News Sport Entertainment Motoring Women Food Parenting Travel Health Focus Zimbabwe News24 Top Stories Aids Focus Media24 Investigations Good News City Press Competitions isiZulu Ningizimu Afrika Izindaba-Zami Ezemidlalo Afrika Umhlaba Ezokuzijabulisa Ezamabhizinisi Jobs Property   Syria chemical weapons claim 'serious' 2013-04-26 13:02 Pin It (File, AFP) Multimedia   ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures Send us your pictures  ·  Send us your stories Related Links Syria chemical weapons: US not '100% sure' Syrian troops capture key town Syria troops, militia battle rebels kalahari.com Prominent Leaders in the Middle East, Including Bashar Al-Assad, Muammar Al-Gaddafi, Hosni Mubarak and More A good review of the prominent leaders in the Middle East, including Bashar Al-Assad, Muammar Al... Now R234.00 buy now London - British Prime Minister David Cameron said on Friday that growing evidence of the use of chemical weapons by the Syrian regime was "extremely serious". He agreed with US President Barack Obama that such use would represent a "red line" for the international community, but said the response would likely be political rather than military. "This is extremely serious. And I think what President Obama said was absolutely right, that this should form for the international community a red line for us to do more," Cameron told the BBC. "I've always been keen for us to do more." He added: "The question is how do we step up the pressure. "In my view what we need to do - and we're doing some of this already - is shape that opposition, work with them, train them, mentor them, help them so we put the pressure on the regime and so we can bring this to an end." Limited evidence Asked whether that would mean putting British troops on the ground in Syria, Cameron said: "I don't want to see that and I don't think that is likely to happen. "But I think we can step up the pressure on the regime, work with our partners, work with the opposition in order to bring about the right outcome." The United States said on Thursday for the first time that Syria had likely used chemical weapons against rebel forces, but emphasised spy agencies were still not 100% sure of the assessment. Britain's Foreign Office confirmed it also had "limited but persuasive" evidence of the use of chemical agents in the conflict which the UN says has left more than 70 000 dead since March 2011. "It is limited evidence, but there is growing evidence that we've seen too of the use of chemical weapons, probably by the regime," Cameron said on Friday. "It's extremely serious - this is a war crime and we should take it very seriously." - AFP Read more on:    bashar assad  |  david cameron  |  barack obama  |  syria  |  uprisings  |  syria conflict NEXT ON NEWS24 X Disgraced Toronto mayor vows to stay on 2013-11-13 09:12 SPONSORED: PRIME MERIDIAN DIRECT Insure a R80 000 car from as little as R263 p/m. Underwritten by RMB Structured Insurance Ltd. FSP 41040. T’s & C’s apply. Email article Print article GET NEWS24 ON: Your mobile Your Facebook profile SHARE: Facebook Twitter Google Digg Delicious Yahoo More... Read News24’s Comments Policy 24.com publishes all comments posted on articles provided that they adhere to our Comments Policy. Should you wish to report a comment for editorial review, please do so by clicking the 'Report Comment' button to the right of each comment. Comment on this story 12  comments Add your comment Thank you, your comment has been submitted. Logout Comment 0 characters remaining Share on Facebook Logout Comment 0 characters remaining Share on Facebook Loading comments...   Inside News24 House porn: R 55 mil 7 beds Drool over this amazing mansion in Bryanston, Sandton Honey-glazed pork shoulder Guinness and honey-glazed pork shoulder. Underrated islands Already done Mauritius and Seychelles? You could head to one of these next. Quorn: pros and cons It looks like chicken; it tastes like chicken. But what is it? Early C-sections? Women are allegedly opting to preserve their bodies. Amazing 3D tattoos Some of these tattoos are so real, it will actually freak you out. Flaming hot! 9 hot pics from the Hunger Games premiere! Hotel room must-dos Five essentials to do when staying in a hotel room.   Welcome to News24 Login | Sign Up Get Published! UPLOAD Click here to upload your article Click here to upload your photo Click here to upload your video Most Read Most Commented News In Your Area Doctor raped while jogging Ramaphosa explains Boer comment Prostitute reveals size of Justin Bieber's manhood 2 killed in blast near Eastgate mall Mpumalanga bus crash pictures view Huge opposition to McBride choice Ramaphosa explains Boer comment McBride recommended as IPID boss Ramaphosa stuck in the dark ages - DA ANC outraged by article on Ramaphosa [change area] News in Cape Town SA TV show winner goes into hiding after threats Boy, 11, drowns at Muizenberg Beach Woman dies watching granddaughter dance to victory Whale closes Fish Hoek beach Police inquiry sitting planned in Cape Town   8 dieting hurdles for men So you’ve been trying to get rid of your shapely potbelly for a while, but the dastardly thing just won’t budge. Perhaps you’re simply making one of these mistakes.   Gadgets & Gear | Eye Candy | Win   This one is for the guys... What not to say to your girlfriend The sinister side of snoring Golf Challenge – take the longshot! Hottie of the day: Jessica   Traffic Lottery Select region.. Free State Mpumalanga Northern Cape Eastern Cape KwaZulu-Natal Western Cape Gauteng North West Limpopo   Wednesday  Cape Town - 10:11 AM Road name: N1 Inbound OVERTURNED TRUCK obstructing two lanes at Koeberg Interchange - DELAYS from Sable Road Wednesday  Maitland - 10:08 AM Road name: M5 Northbound The link to the N1 Inbound carriageway is CLOSED due to an overturned truck - use alternative routes   More traffic reports...   Here are the winning Powerball numbers from the Tuesday, 12 November draw. 2, 15, 22, 33, 35  Powerball 16 SMS the word Powerball to 31222 to get lotto numbers sent directly to your phone. The service costs just R10 per month. To unsubscribe, reply with the words Stop Powerball. More lotto numbers... Jobs in Cape Town [change area] Jobs in Western Cape region CSS Programmer Western Cape MicroZa R16000 - R20000 Senior Software Developer Western Cape MH Solutions Market Related Administrative Clerk (Temp)- Beares Western Cape Western Cape Ellerine Furnishers Market Related Browse more Cape Town jobs... Polokwane Jobs East London Jobs Eastern Cape Jobs Mining Jobs Retail Jobs Legal Jobs Register your CV... Get Job alerts in your e-mail... RECRUITERS – Advertise your jobs here Property [change area] HOUSES FOR SALE IN Johannesburg, Mulbarton Houses R 1 900 000 HOUSES FOR SALE IN Witbank, Reyno Ridge Houses R 2 100 000 TOWNHOUSES FOR SALE IN Rustenburg, Waterval East Townhouses R 1 200 000 Travel - Look, Book, Go! Book now! Spend 7 nights at the brand new Centara Grand Azuri Resort and Spa in Mauritius from R16 580 per person sharing. Includes accommodation, return flights, airport transfers and selected drinks. Centara Grand Azuri, Mauritius Kalahari.com - shop online today Hot deal of the week! Asus Nexus 7” 3G Tablet + FREE cover Now R2999 If you are looking for an affordable tablet with exceptional features, design and outstanding performance then look no further. Offer valid while stocks last. Now R2999. Buy now! Hot new music! 2 CDs for R199 – As seen on TV Get the hottest new music for R199, choose from hit albums like Katy Perry’s Prism, Lady Gaga’s Artpop,True by Avicii and many more. Offer valid while stocks last. Buy now! Hottest summer reads Wilbur Smith’s Vicious Circle, The Signature of All Things by Elizaberth Gilberth, The French Affair by Jan Hendrik van de Westhuizen and more. Shop now! 57cm compact kettle braai now R2099 Get the sensational Weber 57cm Black One – Touch Silver “Original” + FREE vinyl cover and a set of standard tongs for only R2099, save R380. Offer valid while stocks last. Buy now! The hottest toys for festive Get the hottest toys this festive season + get FREE delivery on all orders. Shop now! OLX Free Classifieds [change area] Boxed Blackberry Q10 Mobile, Cell Phones in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 Flats to rent from R1500 Real Estate, Houses - Apartments for Rent in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 urgent sale Vehicles, Cars in South Africa, Gauteng, Johannesburg. Date October 25 Sponsored links Metropolitan Family Funeral Plan from R36 p.m.   Free Fax2Mail BlackBerry Bold 9780 BlackBerry 6 Engage your world with BlackBerry 6 OS on the... From R2899.00 I'm shopping for: Horoscopes Aquarius (20 Jan - 18 Feb) Aries (21 Mar - 20 Apr) Cancer (21Jun - 21 Jul) Capricorn (21Dec - 19 Jan) Gemini (21 May - 20 Jun) Leo (22 Jul - 21 Aug) Libra (22 Sep - 22 Oct) Pisces (19 Feb - 20 Mar) Sagittarius (22 Nov - 20 Dec) Scorpio (23 Oct - 21 Nov) Taurus (21 Apr - 20 May) Virgo (22 Aug - 21 Sep) Aquarius If you are keen to expand your knowledge on a certain topic or subject, these days there are so many options to choose from. All... read more Aries You might feel a little touchy today. As a result, you could feel insulted by something that really was meant to be harmless. Give... read more Cancer If you find yourself a little more in the spotlight today than usually, it will be helpful not to suffer from stage fright. This... read more Capricorn You are probably the most ambitious of all the signs, which is why your sign is known for career achievement. Today, however, is... read more Gemini From time to time, it is really enjoyable to connect with old friends. Today is one of those days whereby you could socialise till... read more Leo With travelling on your mind, you could give your imagination wings and dream of faraway destinations. Luckily, you have an... read more Libra Today is a day to appreciate your partner’s idiosyncrasies and to chuckle at them instead of getting annoyed by them. We all have... read more Pisces Most people get a kick out of doing some retail shopping and why should you be any different? Today, however, you need to match... read more Sagittarius Play and enjoyment are high on your agenda at the best of times, but today, you seem to be seeking it out actively. Another facet... read more Scorpio Be more aware of the things you do out of habit every day so that you can determine whether the routines you follow are serving... read more Taurus As an earth sign, you tend to believe in what you can see and touch. That makes it very difficult though for you to trust your... read more Virgo If you find yourself constantly worried about your debt and finances, you’ll only make yourself more miserable than is necessary.... read more Who’s your perfect match? Click here to find out!   services E-mail Alerts The latest headlines in your inbox RSS feeds News delivered really simply. Mobile News24 on your mobile or PDA E-mail Newsletters You choose what you want News24 on your iPhone Get News24 headlines on your iPhone. SMS Alerts Get breaking news stories via SMS. Blogs Your opinion on you, me and everyone. Calais Website keywords automated by OpenCalais.   Search · About Us · Advertise on News24 · Terms & Conditions · Press Releases · Jobs at News24 · Contact us   © 2013 24.com. All rights reserved. There are  new stories on the homepage. Click here to see them.   News24 English Afrikaans isiZulu |   OLX  |   PriceCheck  |   Property24  |   Kalahari.com  |   Careers24   Hello  Create Profile Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24. Please provide a username for your profile page: This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network. Hello  Choose a display name: * You must provide a display name. Edit your avatar: Select an image file on your computer (max 4MB): * The image you selected could not be uploaded. Tell us a bit about yourself: * Your profile could not be saved at the moment. Please try again later.   Saving your profile   Login / SignUp Login / SignUp Settings Location Settings News24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location. If you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences, please select a location for each component and click "Submit" in order for the changes to take affect. Most Read Block Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Weather Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Traffic Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Jobs Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Property Listings Change your location National Western Cape Gauteng Eastern Cape Free State KwaZulu-Natal Limpopo Mpumalanga Northern Cape North-West * Kalahari Listings Change your location National Cape Town George Johannesburg Pretoria East London Port Elizabeth Bloemfontein Durban Pietermaritzburg Polokwane Mbombela Kimberley Mahikeng * Please select a value from the drop down box. Saving your settings Facebook Sign-In Hi News addict, Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news. Log in with Facebook to comment and personalise news, weather and listings.   
