AtlanticLIVE — White House Correspondents' Dinner Weekend 2012 — The Atlantic
 Skip Navigation Event Archive Upcoming Events About Us Contact Us The White House Correspondents’ Dinner Weekend is D.C.’s premier social occasion, drawing top business leaders, Hollywood celebrities, journalists, and the full spectrum of political figures. Each year, Atlantic Media hosts a series of star-studded events surrounding the Dinner. To see more highlights from D.C.'s glitziest weekend, view our slideshow at The Atlantic’s social gallery Atlantic Scene. Friday, April 27: WELCOME DINNER Atlantic Media Company owner David Bradley kicked off the celebration at his Washington home by inviting partygoers, media figures, and politicos, such as  Sex and the City's Darren Star and Governor Jerry Brown, to experience a meal inspired by African cuisine. The event was curated by Corby Kummer, an award-winning food critic and  Atlantic senior editor.  Carol Joynt of the Washingtonian wrote, “'If [I] could attend only one party during the White House Correspondents dinner weekend, what would it be?' the answer is easy: the pre-event dinner on Friday night hosted by Atlantic Media's  David and Katherine Bradley at their grand Embassy Row home.” FIRST AMENDMENT PARTY Later that evening , Charlize Theron, Woody Harrelson, Tony Romo, Chase Crawford of  Gossip Girl, Jesse Tyler Ferguson of  Modern Family,  Rosario Dawson , and other luminaries lounged in the VIP section of our annual First Amendment Party, co-produced by Funny or Die, IMPACT ARTS + Film Fund, and  National Journal. The evening was catered by celebrity chef Jose Andres. Saturday, April 28: EDITORIAL BRIEFING On the morning of the Dinner, top Atlantic and National Journal editors and contributors—such as Ron Brownstein, Jeffrey Goldberg, and James Bennet—provided an insider’s update on current political dynamics and inside-the-Beltway conversation. RECEPTION Immediately preceding Saturday evening's Dinner, Claire Danes, John Legend, Kevin Spacey, Mary J. Blige, Rep. Eric Cantor, Rick Santorum, and even Uggie, the dog from  The Artist, mingled at our yearly Washington Hilton cocktail reception, co-hosted with  National Journal and CBS News. Presenting Underwriters Supporting Underwriters Past Events White House Correspondents' Dinner Weekend 2011 Tweets by @Atlantic_LIVE Subscribe Help Faq Follow the Atlantic Masthead Store Jobs Educational Program Privacy Policy Site Map Terms & Conditions Advertise Press Contact Us Merchandise Copyright © 2010 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. 
