Ideas from the Archives: "Waiting on the Weekend" - Ideas Special Report
 The Atlantic Home « Deconstruct McMansions | Main | Video of the Day: "Jocks vs. Nerds" » 20 June 2009 8:15 AM Ideas from the Archives Ideas from the Archives: "Waiting on the Weekend" by Conor Friedersdorf In August 1991, Witold Rybczynski lamented the way that Americans spend their Saturdays and Sundays. Society took a long time to offer its members two days off, he wrote, but " what we choose to do looks increasingly like work, and idleness has acquired a bad name." My favorite part of the piece is as follows: I'm always charmed by old photographs of skiers which show groups of people in what appear to be street clothes, with uncomplicated pieces of bent wood strapped to sturdy walking boots. These men and women have a playful and unaffected air. Today every novice is caparisoned in skin-tight spandex, like an Olympic racer, and even cross-country skiing, a simple enough pastime, has been infected by a preoccupation with correct dress, authentic terminology, and up-to-date equipment. This reflects an attitude toward play which is different from what it was in the past. Most outdoor sports, once simply muddled through, are now undertaken with a high degree of seriousness. "Professional" used to be a word that distinguished someone who was paid for an activity from the sportsman; today the word has come to denote anyone with a high degree of proficiency; "professional-quality" equipment is available to--and desired by--all. Conversely, "amateur," a wonderful word literally meaning "lover," has been degraded to mean a rank beginner or anyone without a certain level of skill. "Just an amateur," we say; it is not, as it once was, a compliment. The lack of carelessness in our recreation, the sense of obligation to get things right, and the emphasis on protocol and decorum do represent an enslavement of a kind. People used to "play" tennis; now they "work" on their backhand. It is not hard to imagine what Chesterton would have thought of such dedication; this is just the sort of laborious pursuit of play that he so often derided. "If a thing is worth doing," he once wrote, it is worth doing badly." I hope Mr. Rybczynski would object to my blogging about this piece on the weekend. Permalink :: Comments (2) :: TrackBacks (0) :: Favorites (0) (Vote) :: Share This TrackBack TrackBack URL for this entry: http://ideas.theatlantic.com/mt-42/mt-tb.cgi/10367 Comments (2) Erin June 20, 2009 2:02 PM I have a hunch - that amateur pronounced with a hard ch is derogatory, but if you pronounce it with a crisp t and a buttery eur, it's still complimentary. "rank amatchur" = humiliating, "devoted amateur" = admiring. Conor Friedersdorf June 20, 2009 2:10 PM Yes, upon reflection I think you're right. Comments on this entry have been closed. Search Subscribe to RSS News Feed What Women Want (on TV) Lifetime Networks CEO Andrea Wong on acquiring Project Runway, surviving her years at MIT, and making "TV women can escape with." Video "Fun With Technology" Tim O'Reilly talks to Bob Cohn about Twitter, transparency, and his delight in seeing "geeks playing with sensors, with robotics, with building things."... Video Not Your Father's Marijuana Anti-drug activist Joseph A. Califano Jr. explains to Scott Stossel why America's substance-abuse problem is more potent--and pervasive--than ever before.... Video "We Have to Get Better" Secretary of Education Arne Duncan talks to Bob Cohn about national standards, the good parts of No Child Left Behind, and his roadtrip with Newt Gingrich and Al Sharpton. ... Video The View from Stanford University President John Hennessy talks to Bob Cohn about green technology, Condi Rice's return to campus, and what it takes to get admitted to Stanford these days.... Video Darwin's Favorite Judge The federal judge who ruled that so-called intelligent design cannot be taught in public schools talks to Bob Cohn about why the debate over evolution will not end.... Video American Writer Curtis Sittenfeld, author of American Wife and Prep, talks to Scott Stossel about chick lit, George and Laura Bush, and those "disgusting sex scenes."... Video The Gamemaker Will Wright, creator of Sim City and Spore, talks to Ta-Nehisi Coates about "flow state" and how to keep players coming back.... Video Steve Brill Wants to Save the Media By charging for online content, for starters. "The Atlantic is idiotic to give its stuff away for free."... Video Economic Reality Check Former Clinton adviser Laura Tyson tells James Fallows: "If you knew the next big mistake, you wouldn't make it."... Video The O'Connor Factor Sandra Day O'Connor talks to Bob Cohn about her 25 years on the Supreme Court and her "absolutely miserable" confirmation hearings.... Video Beyond Reagan Economist Douglas Holtz-Eakin speaks to Megan McArdle about moving the Republican Party past the politics of personality and into the realm of new ideas.... Newsmakers "Answer the Question" Associate Justice Stephen Breyer talks to Bob Cohn about David Souter, the polarization of the Court, and his advice to nominee Sonia Sotomayor.... Video "If Bush Had Done That ... " Former White House Press Secretary Dana Perino talks to Bob Cohn about Obama's likability, the media's complacency, and whether she was wrong to turn the other cheek... Video The Man from Google CEO Eric Schmidt talks to James Fallows about China, U.S. immigration policy, and how the search engine can be misused by "bad people."... Newsmakers The Pawlenty Plan The Minnesota governor talks about Al Franken, the Republican Party's "rebuilding year," and his own plans for 2012 ... Festival Panels ASPEN PANEL: Building Palestine Salam Fayyad, prime minister of the Palestinian National Authority, talks to Thomas Friedman about laying the groundwork for statehood... Video ASPEN PANEL: Alan Greenspan on the Housing Bubble The former Fed chair traces the current economic crisis back to the fall of the Soviet Union... Festival Panels ASPEN PANEL: What Drives Up the Cost of Health Care? White House health care advisor Ezekiel Emanuel talks to Philips CEO Gerard Kleisterlee about the incentives that make medical technologies more and more expensive... Festival Panels ASPEN PANEL: Winning the Green Innovation Race John Doerr asks Stanford President John Hennessy why so few of the leading clean energy companies are American... Video ASPEN PANEL: Me of Little Faith Comedian Lewis Black offers unsolicited advice to religious voters ... Video ASPEN PANEL: Are Jews Safe in Israel? Jeffrey Goldberg asks Israeli Ambassador-Designate Michael Oren whether the Jewish State has failed in its mission to provide a secure haven for the Jewish people... Video ASPEN PANEL: Benefiting from China's Rise James Fallows and Niall Ferguson debate how to steer the Far East superpower toward America's best interests... Video ASPEN PANEL: A Game of Catch-Up Secretary of Education Arne Duncan explains to Bob Schieffer why American schools have fallen behind, and how the Obama administration plans to regain ground... Video ASPEN PANEL: Obama's America and the World James Bennet asks Susan Rice, American ambassador to the United Nations, whether the new U.S. outlook can be labeled as idealist or realist... from THE MAGAZINE The Atlantic's July/August issue is devoted to ideas that can change the world. Highlights: energy The Coming Green Economy Barack Obama is preaching the gospel of clean energy. Can he succeed where Jimmy Carter failed? by Joshua Green technology Get Smarter Humans have survived the centuries by evolving into quick-witted creatures. Now technology and pharmacology provide a new boost to intelligence. by Jamais Cascio business Dr. Doom Has Some Good News Nouriel Roubini is a famous—and famously prescient—economic pessimist. So why is he smiling? by James Fallows foreign policy How Iran Could Save the Middle East An unlikely alliance with Israel might bring peace to the region. by Jeffrey Goldberg Environment Re-engineering the Earth New techniques can change the climate quickly and cheaply. Why are scientists afraid to mention them? by Graeme Wood quick fixes 15 Ideas To Save the World Privatize the seas. Redesign the dollar. Scrap the vice presidency. Weekly July 26, 2009 - August 1, 2009 July 19, 2009 - July 25, 2009 July 12, 2009 - July 18, 2009 July 5, 2009 - July 11, 2009 June 28, 2009 - July 4, 2009 June 21, 2009 - June 27, 2009 June 14, 2009 - June 20, 2009 Monthly July 2009 June 2009 Categories Business / Economics Education Energy / Environment Health Care Idea in the News Idea of the Day Ideas 2009 Ideas from the Archives Ill Conceived On Discourse Q&As Quote of the Day Technology Video Festival Panels Newsmakers Video of the Day Wish List Home | Atlantic FAQ | Masthead | Site Guide | Subscribe | Subscriber Help Atlantic Store | Educational Program | Jobs/Internships | Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions | Feedback | Advertise Copyright © 2010 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All rights reserved. 
