BankThink - American Banker
 American Banker The Bond Buyer National Mortgage News PaymentsSource Credit Union Journal Leveraged Finance News more banking American Banker Bank Technology News American Banker Magazine Credit Union Journal MUNICIPAL FINANCE The Bond Buyer MORTGAGES National Mortgage News PAYMENTS PaymentsSource Collections&Credit Risk ISO&Agent capital markets Mergers & Acquisitions Asset Securitization Report Leveraged Finance News Private Placement Letter Traders Magazine Securities Technology Monitor investment advisory Financial Planning On Wall Street Bank Investment Consultant Money Management Executive Investment Mgt. Mandate Pipeline accounting Accounting Today Tax Pro Today HEALTHCARE & BENEFITS Employee Benefit News Employee Benefit Adviser Health Data Management Insurance Networking News Information Management Wednesday, December 4, 2013  |  as of 12:33 PM ET Today's Paper | Magazine | Video | Web Seminars | White Papers Women in Banking | FinTech 100 Log In | My Account | Customer Service mergers & acquisitions regulation & reform community banking consumer finance bank technology bankthink special reports conferences & events data resource center Breaking News PNC Adds 3D Printing to Christmas Price Index 12:19PM ET Mint Debuts Windows 8 App 12:02PM ET First Look: Six Uses for Octocopters in Banking 09:38AM ET RBS Apologizes for ATM Failures Following Technical Fault 09:27AM ET Technology Digital Insight Purchase a 'Timely Move' for NCR NCR Seeks 'Profound Reinvention' Via Digital Insight, Alaric Buys Canadian Banks Manage Customers' Digital Personas; U.S. Banks Could Follow PNC Uses Big Data to Find Virtual Wallet Prospects Document System Helps Colonial Savings Cut Costs, Ease Compliance Bitcoin on the Brain; Taking Bank Management to Task Mobile Money Fails the Mom Test Visit BankThink » Multimedia The FinTech 100: Meet the Top 10 Executives at the top 10 FinTech companies share highlights of the year past and plans to move their companies forward. See All » Breaking News Wells Fargo Names Nordquist to Insurance Post, Replacing Doss 10:52AM ET Huntington Shuffles High-Ranking Execs 06:56PM ET Three Convicted in Foreclosure-Rescue Scam 02:19PM ET Carolina Premier in N.C. to Change Charter, Name 11:53AM ET Consumer Finance Untested Racial Bias Charges Put Banks in Tight Spot Large Banks Fail Seven Tests Required for Mortgage Settlement Housing Group Taps Dubious Data, HUD Ties to Demand Millions from Banks N.Y. Subpoenas Firms That Generate Leads for Online Lenders CFPB Tightens Supervision of Student Loan Servicers To Succeed in Mobile Banking, Avoid Either/Or Mindset Conflicting Mortgage Rules Prolong Reign of the GSEs Visit BankThink » Multimedia What's Behind Racial Bias Claims Against Banks See All » Breaking News Treasury Makes $13M from Sale of Cathay Warrants 12:06PM ET Huntington Shuffles High-Ranking Execs 06:56PM ET Bankers, Directors Ask FDIC to Ease Requirements for Startups 04:01PM ET Treasury Dept. Auctions Cathay General Warrants 03:51PM ET Community Banking Amish Bank Charter to Set Standard for Future Applications Government Shutdown Put Pressure on Latest Index of Banking Activity Two Merging Banks See Dallas as Lone Star on Their Map Bankers Score Victory as Controversial Farm Credit Pilot Ends More Banks Expected to Sell to Credit Unions Slate Writer Is Dead Wrong to Root Against Community Banks Avoiding a Litigation Nightmare in a Commercial Mortgage Foreclosure Visit BankThink » Multimedia What Community Bankers See Ahead in 2014 See All » Breaking News Bank Specialist Law Firms in D.C. to Merge 12:14PM ET Bankers, Directors Ask FDIC to Ease Requirements for Startups 04:01PM ET Regulators Set Vote on Volcker Rule for Dec. 10 12:43PM ET Ex-WaMu CEO Killinger Said to be Near Settlement in Bank Failure 12:02PM ET Regulation & Reform The FDIC's Surprising Role in Shaping the GSE Reform Debate Amish Bank Charter to Set Standard for Future Applications Large Banks Fail Seven Tests Required for Mortgage Settlement CFPB Action Against Payday Lenders 'Building to a Crescendo' U.S. Chamber Calls for Changes to FSOC, Systemic Designations Keep the Volcker Rule Simple What Obamacare and Dodd-Frank’s Swaps Rules Have in Common Visit BankThink » Multimedia What's Behind Racial Bias Claims Against Banks See All » Breaking News Treasury Makes $13M from Sale of Cathay Warrants 12:06PM ET Treasury Dept. Auctions Cathay General Warrants 03:51PM ET American Momentum Moving Headquarters, Charter to Texas 09:26AM ET Investors in N.J. Finally Gets Fed Approval for Roma Deal 08:24AM ET Mergers & Acquisitions Community Banker of the Year: Heritage Oaks' Simone Lagomarsino Two Merging Banks See Dallas as Lone Star on Their Map More Banks Expected to Sell to Credit Unions Digital Insight Purchase a 'Timely Move' for NCR NCR Seeks 'Profound Reinvention' Via Digital Insight, Alaric Buys Bank M&A Activity Will Never Reignite in Most Markets Bank M&A Lessons from Obamacare Website Disaster Visit BankThink » Multimedia 'Culture is Like the Titanic': Week's Best Quotes The most notable quotes from American Banker stories of the previous week. Readers are encouraged to add their own observations in the Comments fields at the bottom of each slide. See All » Blockbuster Video: A Cautionary Tale for Bankers Following tectonic shifts in the video rental industry, the very Blockbuster stores that were just yesterday a competitive advantage rather quickly became an albatross. That... Read More Latest Posts Overlooked in Housing Reform Debate: Risk of Lender Concentration Keep the Volcker Rule Simple Housing Finance 'Reform' Looks More Like a Replay Markets Could Help the Fed End TBTF Slate Writer Is Dead Wrong to Root Against Community Banks B of A Settles (Again) with Freddie; RBS Apologizes for CyberMonday Outage EU Fines Banks for Rate-Rigging; 'Twas the Week Before Volcker Rule Vote Barb Rehm's Blog Why FDIC is Running Out of Time for Resolution Planning It's been nearly two years since the FDIC first unveiled its so-called “single point of entry” approach, which is designed to help unwind a systemically... Read More Editor's Choice Why FDIC is Running Out of Time for Resolution Planning What Obamacare and Dodd-Frank’s Swaps Rules Have in Common See All » Featured Report The FinTech 100 Special Reports Wealth Management The Cyber War on Banking Regulation & Reform M&A Midyear Report See All » Mobile Banker of the Year The Most Influential Women in Payments The Volatility Paradox: A Special Report on Risk Management Big Bank Breakups and Tech Disruptions: Predicting the Future of Reform Bank M&A Fees Have Skyrocketed in the Past Decade See All » Featured Event 11th Annual Financial Services Marketing & Innovation Symposium December 5-6, 2013 Crowne Plaza, New York, NY Upcoming Conferences 11th Annual Financial Services Marketing & Innovation Symposium December 5-6, 2013 Crowne Plaza, New York, NY 2014 AM&AA Winter Conference January 21-23, 2014 Fairmont Scottsdale Princess, Scottsdale, AZ Retail Banking 2014 March 12-14, 2014 Hilton Bonnet Creek, Orlando, FL 18th Annual National Collections & Operational Risk Conference March 24-26, 2014 Fontainebleau Miami Beach, Miami Beach, FL See All Conferences » Event Gallery See All » Benchmarking & Data Ranking the Banks (Registration Required) A comprehensive database of bank rankings,league tables and vital statistics. Rate Tracker (Registration Required) Monitor and look up average deposit and loan rates by product and by state. American Banker Research Cost-Effective Management Intelligence for Bankers Board Reports Risk Management Product Management Regulatory Reports Profitability Management Custom Reports Data in the News Banks’ Market Growth a Whirl of Wins and Losses: Interactive Graphic Most banks have been adding deposit share in some key markets while slipping in others. This graphic provides snapshots of how the battlefield is changing. Big Losses in Banks’ Bond Portfolios, Investors Yawn: Interactive Graphic Second quarter marks against securities have ranged to 5% or more of tangible equity, but markets have looked past the losses and bid up bank stocks. Bank Margin Growth Depends on More than Rates: Interactive Graphic Deposit costs lagged short-term interest rates on the way up and the way down during the last cycle. A relatively large representation of long-term certificates of deposits could help as rates rise. Deposits May Not Be Dime-a-Dozen Much Longer: Interactive Graphic Planned price increases and hints that households are looking for higher yields for their savings suggest that the flood tide of deposits could finally be ebbing. More » Solution Centers Innovations in Risk Analytics and Architecture Mobile Banking and Technology Center See All » Featured Whitepapers Industrialized operations for retail banking: the foundation for defense and offense in volatile market conditions Breaking into New Frontiers in Banking Transforming the F&A Enterprise for Increased Profitability Mobile Engagement and Data Collection for Enterprise: 16 Best Practices When Building Your Strategy Cross-Pollination: Sharing Real-Time Customer Insights Between the Contact Center and Marketing Addressing Fraudulent Payment Activity with Advanced Decision Management Analytics Data: The Tail That Wags the Stress Test See All Whitepapers » Featured Web Seminars Anticipating More Card Scrutiny Making Customer Engagements More Dynamic via Mobile Devices CFPB Update: Preparing for Diversity & Inclusion Assessments Streamline Your Transaction Banking Managing Prepaid Card Fraud and Risk in the CIP Process Creating Stronger Customer Experiences without Breaking the Bank See All Web Seminars » BankThink Editors' Choice Why FDIC is Running Out of Time for Resolution Planning What Obamacare and Dodd-Frank’s Swaps Rules Have in Common Bank M&A Activity Will Never Reignite in Most Markets To Succeed in Mobile Banking, Avoid Either/Or Mindset Comments (1) How to Prevent Bad Bankers from Ruining Your Corporate Culture Comments (1) Women on Boards Improve a Bank's Performance Comments (3) About BankThink BankThink is a blog about ideas, trends, and other developments in financial services. BankThink RSS Follow BankThink Email Newsletters Get the Morning Scan and BankThink delivered to your inbox. Around the Web Capital controls, Bitcoin edition | FT Alphaville Kiffmeister's Links Community Bankers Unite! Marketing Tea Party Glorious revolutions and their discontents Free Exchange Introducing the FRBNY Survey of Consumer Expectations: Measuring Price Inflation Expectations Liberty Street Economics Summary of Arjan's Subprime Auto Series Inside the Underbanked Comeback capital Schumpeter When Marketing to Women, Financial Brands Fall Way Short The Financial Brand Honda integrates iPhone w/ 2014 Civic touchscreen in first steps towards iOS in the Car The Bankwatch Book Review: Retirement GPS Aleph Blog US Senate Gets Interested In Emminent Domain Bank Lawyer's Blog Detroit: Eligibility and Pensions CreditSlips Write-Offs: 12.03.13 Dealbreaker NCR Acquires Digital Insight - What's Next? Celent Banking Blog ERM on WillisWire Risk Views Are Bank Directors and Officers Entitled to Less Business Judgement Rule Protection Than Other Corporate Directrors and Officers? The D&O Diary Blog Roll Barb Rehm (TOP SHELF) The Future Model of Banking (DITTO) Interchange (PaymentsSource's blog) The Financial Brand The National Bank Examiner The D&O Diary FICO Banking Analytics Blog Bank Lawyer's Blog Zoot Blog Netbanker Financial Services Club Interfluidity Bank Talk Credit Slips Deus Ex Macchiato ISDA Media Comment Re: The Auditors Subprime Shakeout Subprime Bank Regs Aleph Blog Cash Per Diem Counting on Currency Tomorrow's Transactions Let's Talk Bitcoin! The Monetary Future Latest Posts RISK DOCTOR Overlooked in Housing Reform Debate: Risk of Lender Concentration Clifford Rossi | Dec 04 Ignoring the effects of loan seller origination, sourcing, and servicing processes in a post-GSE secondary market could generate losses for taxpayers. Consumer Finance Regulation & Reform Blockbuster Video: A Cautionary Tale for Bankers Dave Martin | Dec 04 Following tectonic shifts in the video rental industry, the very Blockbuster stores that were just yesterday a competitive advantage rather quickly became an albatross. That type of chain of events is one that bankers need to be especially on guard for. Consumer Finance Community Banking EU Fines Banks for Rate-Rigging; 'Twas the Week Before Volcker Rule Vote Jeanine Skowronski | Dec 04 Breaking News This Morning ... Fined: European Union regulators have fined eight financial institutions, including Deutsche Bank, Société Générale, Royal Bank of Scotland, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, for colluding in attempts to manipulate key global benchmark interest rates. Penalties total $2.32 billion. Future penalties are possible. Wall Street Journal, Financial Times, New York Times Receiving Wide Coverage ... … National/Global Slate Writer Is Dead Wrong to Root Against Community Banks Rob Blackwell | Dec 03 There’s a reason most Americans still like their local banks, even if they detest the megabanks after the financial crisis. Comments (2) Community Banking Regulation & Reform Housing Finance 'Reform' Looks More Like a Replay Peter Wallison | Dec 03 In the end, we will once again have a system that looks suspiciously like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac redux, with a housing bubble, a mortgage meltdown and a financial crisis. Consumer Finance Regulation & Reform Markets Could Help the Fed End TBTF Joseph T. Lynyak III | Dec 03 Most systemically important financial institutions are publicly traded, so they’d have to immediately disclose any orders from the Fed to curb systemic risk. Their securities would get hammered. Thus, Fed supervision is a strong incentive to operate safely. Regulation & Reform Risk Management Keep the Volcker Rule Simple William M. Isaac and Richard M. Kovacevich | Dec 03 A Volcker Rule limiting investment in securities used primarily for customer transactions to 10% of the firm’s revenue is simple for banks to understand and easy for regulators to enforce. Comments (2) Regulation & Reform Washington B of A Settles (Again) with Freddie; RBS Apologizes for CyberMonday Outage Jeanine Skowronski | Dec 03 Receiving Wide Coverage ... Settled: Bank of America has agreed to pay $404 million to Freddie Mac to settle disputes over residential mortgage loans sold to Freddie between 2000 and 2009. Some good news for the bank? "The deal should largely shield Bank of America from any further 'put-backs' of crisis-era loans sold" to both government-sponsored enterprises, notes the Journal. B of A already agreed to a $1.28 billion repurchase settlement with Freddie back in 2011.… National/Global What Obamacare and Dodd-Frank’s Swaps Rules Have in Common Allan D. Grody | Dec 02 Passing framework rules without considering technology implementation has proven disastrous for the CFTC. Like the Obamacare website debacle, it has brought to the fore unresolved Big Data issues. Regulation & Reform Risk Management Why FDIC is Running Out of Time for Resolution Planning Barbara A. Rehm | Dec 02 It's been nearly two years since the FDIC first unveiled its so-called “single point of entry” approach, which is designed to help unwind a systemically important financial institution. Yet without more details, the strategy is in danger of imploding. Regulation & Reform Bank M&A Activity Will Never Reignite in Most Markets Harvard Winters | Dec 02 Bank M&A activity has been lackluster in most parts of the country. It will probably stay that way, since so many banks are too small for buyers to bother with. Mergers & Acquisitions Community Banking UBS Restructures; Lloyds Appoints New Chairman; To Be a Corbat or a Dimon? Jeanine Skowronski | Dec 02 Receiving Wide Coverage ... UBS' Restructuring Efforts: An internal memo reviewed by the New York Times revealed UBS' plan to combine its currency, interest rates and credit trading businesses into a single unit. The move, confirmed by the bank, is part of UBS' ongoing efforts to "to shrink its investment bank and shift focus away from riskier trading activities to its wealth management and retail operations," Dealbook notes. The bank also plans to buy back bonds… National/Global POINT OF SALE To Succeed in Mobile Banking, Avoid Either/Or Mindset Jeanine Skowronski | Nov 27 Banks shouldn’t feel forced to place all their bets on one platform or another. In the shorter term, successful future models of banking will be hybrids. Comments (1) Consumer Finance Technology Avoiding a Litigation Nightmare in a Commercial Mortgage Foreclosure Y. David Scharf, Danielle C. Lesser and Brett Dockwell | Nov 27 Commercial loan officers must use judgment in discussions and email exchanges with property moguls, whose lawyers will construe statements and written correspondence in a way most favorable to the borrower. Community Banking Risk Management SEC Questions Citi, Morgan Stanley on Foreign Hiring Practices; New Subprime Boom? Jeanine Skowronski | Nov 27 Receiving Wide Coverage ... Questioned: The Securities and Exchange Commission has stepped up its probe into Wall Street's foreign hiring practices. Anonymice are telling their favorite news outlets that Citigroup and Morgan Stanley have both received letters requesting information to determine whether the banks violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Scan readers will recall that, back in August, JPMorgan Chase revealed the regulator was investigating whether the bank habitually hired the children of prominent Chinese officials… National/Global Main | Next page » BankThink Contributors Andrew Kahr Andrew Kahr is a principal in Credit Builders LLC, a financial product testing and development company. He was the founding chief executive of Providian Corp. and can be reached at akahr@creditbuilders.us.com. Bank M&A Activity Will Never Reignite in Most Markets Why FDIC is Running Out of Time for Resolution Planning What Obamacare and Dodd-Frank’s Swaps Rules Have in Common To Succeed in Mobile Banking, Avoid Either/Or Mindset Markets Could Help the Fed End TBTF Conflicting Mortgage Rules Prolong Reign of the GSEs Captains of Finance Need Self-Imposed Restraint Women on Boards Improve a Bank's Performance Opportunities for Banks, Nonbanks Persist in Mortgage Market Video The Revenue Is Not Coming Back: It's Time to Manage Costs Differently [Sponsored] What's Behind Racial Bias Claims Against Banks The Surprising Truth About Big Banks' Customer Service How Well Does the New Isis Mobile Wallet Work? Why Wells Fargo's John Stumpf Is Banker of the Year Winners and Losers in JPM's $13B Settlement CFPB Takes Enforcement Action Against Payday Lender Neil Barofsky Defends His Trip Through Wall Street-DC Revolving Door Banks' Tips for Adding Fees and Avoiding Backlashes Barofsky on Why Tough Internal Investigations Are Good for Banks Why Fracking Is a Problem for Banks Feds Pulled Punches, Resources on Crisis-Era Prosecutions: Barofsky In Pictures 'Culture is Like the Titanic': Week's Best Quotes What Community Bankers See Ahead in 2014 'Nothing Focuses the Attention Like a Hanging': Week's Best Quotes Payments Networks that Put America's to Shame 'Big Banks Act Like Megatron': Comments of the Week MOST READ MOST EMAILED Slate Writer Is Dead Wrong to Root Against Community Banks Untested Racial Bias Charges Put Banks in Tight Spot Housing Group Taps Dubious Data, HUD Ties to Demand Millions from Banks NCR Seeks to 'Profoundly Reinvent' Via Digital Insight, Alaric Buys More Banks Expected to Sell to Credit Unions Canadian Banks Manage Customers' Digital Personas; U.S. Banks Could Follow NCR Seeks to 'Profoundly Reinvent' Via Digital Insight, Alaric Buys Housing Group Taps Dubious Data, HUD Ties to Demand Millions from Banks PaymentsSource.com What's this? Debit ACI Tabs New Executives, Opens Office in Brazil Emerging Payments China Mobile Makes Moves to Speed NFC, 4G Capabilities Opinion Google Gets Aggressive in Mobile Wallet Rollout, But What's Next? Emerging Payments Korean Bitcoin Startup Receives $400,000 Investment Emerging Payments App Developer C-Sam Builds Platform for Custom MasterPass Wallets Debit Payments Vet Joe Proto Elected to Chair SpendSmart Board This feature displays payments industry news and analysis from American Banker sibling brand PaymentsSource. Registration is required; for more information contact customer service. TWITTER FACEBOOK LINKEDIN Tweets by @AmerBanker As the industry evolves, American Banker keeps pace. Going beyond breaking news and headline events, American Banker's editorial staff digs deeper than the mainstream business press to identify and analyze trends. Follow @AmerBanker   Marketplace VISIT MARKETPLACE» Fiserv is a leading global provider of information management and electronic commerce systems for the financial services industry. Learn More Informa Research Services is the premier provider of competitive intelligence, mystery shopping, and compliance testing services to the financial industry. Learn More CSC is a leader in private-label, third-party loan servicing with 30+ years of proven experience in delivering effective, cost-effective solutions. Learn More More Departments Risk Management See All » Markets Could Help the Fed End TBTF Keep the Volcker Rule Simple Final Volcker Rule to Be Released Dec. 10 Markets See All » City National Prices $100 Million Stock Sale F.N.B. to Raise $150M to Prepare for Basel III Ex-BB&T Exec Dolf Roell's Derivatives Play National See All » EU Fines Banks for Rate-Rigging; 'Twas the Week Before Volcker Rule Vote Ex-WaMu CEO Killinger Said to be Near Settlement in Bank Failure Markets Could Help the Fed End TBTF Washington See All » Markets Could Help the Fed End TBTF Keep the Volcker Rule Simple Why Big Is Bad in Government, Business, Banks Retail Delivery See All » BNZ Technology Reads People's Faces for Honest Feedback Wells Fargo Shares Best Practices for Gathering, Using Customer Feedback 7 Ways Banks Are Using Gaming Apps to Spark Engagement Mortgage See All » Overlooked in Housing Reform Debate: Risk of Lender Concentration Housing Finance 'Reform' Looks More Like a Replay B of A Reaches $404 Million Mortgage Deal with Freddie Mac Wealth Management See All » JPMorgan Names Head of Wealth Management Division U.S. Bancorp Replaces Head of High-Net-Worth Business Here's One More Reason U.S. Is Unlikely to Prosecute JPMorgan Mobile Banker See All » Making Customer Engagements More Dynamic via Mobile Devices More than a Third of Small Banks Offer Mobile Payments: Study BBVA Updates Mobile Apps with Remote Deposit for Small Business HOME About Us Contact Us Advertise with Us Subscribe Reprints Customer Service Feedback My Account Site Map Privacy Policy Subscription Agreement sourcemedia corporate site banking American Banker Bank Technology News American Banker Magazine Credit Union Journal MORTGAGES National Mortgage News PAYMENTS PaymentsSource Collections & Credit Risk ISO & Agent capital markets Mergers & Acquisitions Asset Securitization Report Leveraged Finance News Private Placement Letter Traders Magazine Securities Technology Monitor MUNICIPAL FINANCE The Bond Buyer accounting Accounting Today Tax Pro Today HEALTHCARE & BENEFITS Employee Benefit News Employee Benefit Adviser Health Data Management Insurance Networking News Information Management INVESTMENT ADVISORY Financial Planning On Wall Street Bank Investment Consultant Money Management Executive Investment Mgt. Mandate Pipeline © 2013 SourceMedia. All rights reserved. Already a subscriber? Log in here Please note you must now log in with your email address and password. E-MAIL ADDRESS PASSWORD Remember me Forgot your password? Does your company have a site license? Inquire here. Contact customer service. Already a print subscriber? Activate your online account. 
