B of A Settles (Again) with Freddie; RBS Apologizes for CyberMonday Outage - Bank Think Article - American Banker
 American Banker The Bond Buyer National Mortgage News PaymentsSource Credit Union Journal Leveraged Finance News more banking American Banker Bank Technology News American Banker Magazine Credit Union Journal MUNICIPAL FINANCE The Bond Buyer MORTGAGES National Mortgage News PAYMENTS PaymentsSource Collections&Credit Risk ISO&Agent capital markets Mergers & Acquisitions Asset Securitization Report Leveraged Finance News Private Placement Letter Traders Magazine Securities Technology Monitor investment advisory Financial Planning On Wall Street Bank Investment Consultant Money Management Executive Investment Mgt. Mandate Pipeline accounting Accounting Today Tax Pro Today HEALTHCARE & BENEFITS Employee Benefit News Employee Benefit Adviser Health Data Management Insurance Networking News Information Management Wednesday, December 4, 2013  |  as of 12:56 PM ET Today's Paper | Magazine | Video | Web Seminars | White Papers Women in Banking | FinTech 100 Log In | My Account | Customer Service mergers & acquisitions regulation & reform community banking consumer finance bank technology bankthink special reports conferences & events data resource center Breaking News Westpac Debuts App Crowdsourcing Challenge in U.K. 12:42PM ET PNC Adds 3D Printing to Christmas Price Index 12:19PM ET Mint Debuts Windows 8 App 12:02PM ET First Look: Six Uses for Octocopters in Banking 09:38AM ET Technology Digital Insight Purchase a 'Timely Move' for NCR NCR Seeks 'Profound Reinvention' Via Digital Insight, Alaric Buys Canadian Banks Manage Customers' Digital Personas; U.S. Banks Could Follow PNC Uses Big Data to Find Virtual Wallet Prospects Document System Helps Colonial Savings Cut Costs, Ease Compliance Bitcoin on the Brain; Taking Bank Management to Task Mobile Money Fails the Mom Test Visit BankThink » Multimedia The FinTech 100: Meet the Top 10 Executives at the top 10 FinTech companies share highlights of the year past and plans to move their companies forward. See All » Breaking News Wells Fargo Names Nordquist to Insurance Post, Replacing Doss 10:52AM ET Huntington Shuffles High-Ranking Execs 06:56PM ET Three Convicted in Foreclosure-Rescue Scam 02:19PM ET Carolina Premier in N.C. to Change Charter, Name 11:53AM ET Consumer Finance Untested Racial Bias Charges Put Banks in Tight Spot Large Banks Fail Seven Tests Required for Mortgage Settlement Housing Group Taps Dubious Data, HUD Ties to Demand Millions from Banks N.Y. Subpoenas Firms That Generate Leads for Online Lenders CFPB Tightens Supervision of Student Loan Servicers To Succeed in Mobile Banking, Avoid Either/Or Mindset Conflicting Mortgage Rules Prolong Reign of the GSEs Visit BankThink » Multimedia What's Behind Racial Bias Claims Against Banks See All » Breaking News Banc of California Sells $20M of Stock to PE Firm 12:48PM ET Treasury Makes $13M from Sale of Cathay Warrants 12:06PM ET Huntington Shuffles High-Ranking Execs 06:56PM ET Bankers, Directors Ask FDIC to Ease Requirements for Startups 04:01PM ET Community Banking Amish Bank Charter to Set Standard for Future Applications Government Shutdown Put Pressure on Latest Index of Banking Activity Two Merging Banks See Dallas as Lone Star on Their Map Bankers Score Victory as Controversial Farm Credit Pilot Ends More Banks Expected to Sell to Credit Unions Slate Writer Is Dead Wrong to Root Against Community Banks Avoiding a Litigation Nightmare in a Commercial Mortgage Foreclosure Visit BankThink » Multimedia What Community Bankers See Ahead in 2014 See All » Breaking News Bank Specialist Law Firms in D.C. to Merge 12:14PM ET Bankers, Directors Ask FDIC to Ease Requirements for Startups 04:01PM ET Regulators Set Vote on Volcker Rule for Dec. 10 12:43PM ET Ex-WaMu CEO Killinger Said to be Near Settlement in Bank Failure 12:02PM ET Regulation & Reform The FDIC's Surprising Role in Shaping the GSE Reform Debate Amish Bank Charter to Set Standard for Future Applications Large Banks Fail Seven Tests Required for Mortgage Settlement CFPB Action Against Payday Lenders 'Building to a Crescendo' U.S. Chamber Calls for Changes to FSOC, Systemic Designations Keep the Volcker Rule Simple What Obamacare and Dodd-Frank’s Swaps Rules Have in Common Visit BankThink » Multimedia What's Behind Racial Bias Claims Against Banks See All » Breaking News Banc of California Sells $20M of Stock to PE Firm 12:48PM ET Treasury Makes $13M from Sale of Cathay Warrants 12:06PM ET Treasury Dept. Auctions Cathay General Warrants 03:51PM ET American Momentum Moving Headquarters, Charter to Texas 09:26AM ET Mergers & Acquisitions Community Banker of the Year: Heritage Oaks' Simone Lagomarsino Two Merging Banks See Dallas as Lone Star on Their Map More Banks Expected to Sell to Credit Unions Digital Insight Purchase a 'Timely Move' for NCR NCR Seeks 'Profound Reinvention' Via Digital Insight, Alaric Buys Bank M&A Activity Will Never Reignite in Most Markets Bank M&A Lessons from Obamacare Website Disaster Visit BankThink » Multimedia 'Culture is Like the Titanic': Week's Best Quotes The most notable quotes from American Banker stories of the previous week. Readers are encouraged to add their own observations in the Comments fields at the bottom of each slide. See All » Blockbuster Video: A Cautionary Tale for Bankers Following tectonic shifts in the video rental industry, the very Blockbuster stores that were just yesterday a competitive advantage rather quickly became an albatross. That... Read More Latest Posts Overlooked in Housing Reform Debate: Risk of Lender Concentration Keep the Volcker Rule Simple Housing Finance 'Reform' Looks More Like a Replay Markets Could Help the Fed End TBTF Slate Writer Is Dead Wrong to Root Against Community Banks B of A Settles (Again) with Freddie; RBS Apologizes for CyberMonday Outage EU Fines Banks for Rate-Rigging; 'Twas the Week Before Volcker Rule Vote Barb Rehm's Blog Why FDIC is Running Out of Time for Resolution Planning It's been nearly two years since the FDIC first unveiled its so-called “single point of entry” approach, which is designed to help unwind a systemically... Read More Editor's Choice Why FDIC is Running Out of Time for Resolution Planning What Obamacare and Dodd-Frank’s Swaps Rules Have in Common See All » Featured Report The FinTech 100 Special Reports Wealth Management The Cyber War on Banking Regulation & Reform M&A Midyear Report See All » Mobile Banker of the Year The Most Influential Women in Payments The Volatility Paradox: A Special Report on Risk Management Big Bank Breakups and Tech Disruptions: Predicting the Future of Reform Bank M&A Fees Have Skyrocketed in the Past Decade See All » Featured Event 11th Annual Financial Services Marketing & Innovation Symposium December 5-6, 2013 Crowne Plaza, New York, NY Upcoming Conferences 11th Annual Financial Services Marketing & Innovation Symposium December 5-6, 2013 Crowne Plaza, New York, NY 2014 AM&AA Winter Conference January 21-23, 2014 Fairmont Scottsdale Princess, Scottsdale, AZ Retail Banking 2014 March 12-14, 2014 Hilton Bonnet Creek, Orlando, FL 18th Annual National Collections & Operational Risk Conference March 24-26, 2014 Fontainebleau Miami Beach, Miami Beach, FL See All Conferences » Event Gallery See All » Benchmarking & Data Ranking the Banks (Registration Required) A comprehensive database of bank rankings,league tables and vital statistics. Rate Tracker (Registration Required) Monitor and look up average deposit and loan rates by product and by state. American Banker Research Cost-Effective Management Intelligence for Bankers Board Reports Risk Management Product Management Regulatory Reports Profitability Management Custom Reports Data in the News Banks’ Market Growth a Whirl of Wins and Losses: Interactive Graphic Most banks have been adding deposit share in some key markets while slipping in others. This graphic provides snapshots of how the battlefield is changing. Big Losses in Banks’ Bond Portfolios, Investors Yawn: Interactive Graphic Second quarter marks against securities have ranged to 5% or more of tangible equity, but markets have looked past the losses and bid up bank stocks. Bank Margin Growth Depends on More than Rates: Interactive Graphic Deposit costs lagged short-term interest rates on the way up and the way down during the last cycle. A relatively large representation of long-term certificates of deposits could help as rates rise. Deposits May Not Be Dime-a-Dozen Much Longer: Interactive Graphic Planned price increases and hints that households are looking for higher yields for their savings suggest that the flood tide of deposits could finally be ebbing. More » Solution Centers Innovations in Risk Analytics and Architecture Mobile Banking and Technology Center See All » Featured Whitepapers Industrialized operations for retail banking: the foundation for defense and offense in volatile market conditions Breaking into New Frontiers in Banking Transforming the F&A Enterprise for Increased Profitability Mobile Engagement and Data Collection for Enterprise: 16 Best Practices When Building Your Strategy Cross-Pollination: Sharing Real-Time Customer Insights Between the Contact Center and Marketing Addressing Fraudulent Payment Activity with Advanced Decision Management Analytics Data: The Tail That Wags the Stress Test See All Whitepapers » Featured Web Seminars Anticipating More Card Scrutiny Making Customer Engagements More Dynamic via Mobile Devices CFPB Update: Preparing for Diversity & Inclusion Assessments Streamline Your Transaction Banking Managing Prepaid Card Fraud and Risk in the CIP Process Creating Stronger Customer Experiences without Breaking the Bank See All Web Seminars » B of A Settles (Again) with Freddie; RBS Apologizes for CyberMonday Outage by Jeanine Skowronski DEC 3, 2013 8:58am ET Print Email Reprints Comment Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Google+ Related Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf's Eventful 2013 Top Innovation of 2013: Citigroup's Money² for Health Why Wells Fargo's John Stumpf Is Banker of the Year Receiving Wide Coverage ... Settled: Bank of America has agreed to pay $404 million to Freddie Mac to settle disputes over residential mortgage loans sold to Freddie between 2000 and 2009. Some good news for the bank? "The deal should largely shield Bank of America from any further 'put-backs' of crisis-era loans sold" to both government-sponsored enterprises, notes the Journal. B of A already agreed to a $1.28 billion repurchase settlement with Freddie back in 2011. (That settlement, however, covered loans sold by Countrywide.) It also already settled twice with Fannie Mae. The bank plans to use existing reserves to cover the latest payout. Freddie previously struck similar deals with Citigroup, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase and SunTrust Bank. Approved: The Federal Reserve has approved the capital plans it required Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase to resubmit following this year's stress tests. Both banks passed the tests back in March, but were asked to redraft their plans to address significant weaknesses. An anonymouse previously told Dealbook "the Fed had some concerns about the banks' forecasts for losses and revenue in the event of a crisis." Wall Street Journal, American Banker, Financial Times RBS Apology: Royal Bank of Scotland, which didn't exactly have the best week ever last week, started off this one by issuing an apology after a system breakdown left customers unable to use their debit and credit cards. The bank, which offered no details about what caused the system failure, did promise to compensate customers " left out of pocket" as a result. This may prove to be no small task; given that yesterday was Cyber Monday, the biggest online shopping day of the year. Per the FT, this is RBS' fourth technology breakdown in two years. Wall Street Journal In case yesterday's FT article on de novo Bank of Bird-in-Hand had anyone feeling too optimistic, the Journal reports that the number of banking institutions in the U.S. has fallen to its lowest level since at least the Great Depression. Of course, "the consolidation could help alleviate concerns that the abundance of U.S. banks leads to difficulties in oversight or a less-efficient financial system," the paper notes. "Meanwhile, overall bank deposits and assets have grown, despite the drop in institutions." This may come as a surprise: executives at Wells Fargo and spokespersons for Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup say the banks will likely offer loans that don't meet the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's qualified mortgage definition. Regulators, including CFPB director Richard Cordray, have encouraged banks in recent months to lend responsibly outside the QM standard. Financial Times " Banks Need to Embrace Technology or Die." This message is brought to you by Francisco González, chief executive of BBVA. Investment bankers are bracing themselves for lower bonuses this year. "For the second year in a row, global investment banks are cutting overall pay even as their profits are going up, undermining a previous relationship between a lender's overall performance and the level of bonuses it pays," the paper reports. But this accompanying editorial argues that the drop off is not as steep as it should be. "Bankers' high pay is one of the things that makes it very hard for governments to rebalance their economies away from finance — especially in the U.S. and Britain," the op-ed notes. "It is impossible for most other industries to compete with the generous remuneration packages that banking can offer." New York Times New York's crackdown on payday lending continues. Per Dealbook, regulator Benjamin Lawsky has sent subpoenas to 16 so-called lead generator websites that sell sensitive customer data to payday lenders. His office remains concerned with curbing payday lending, but is also worried that consumer information is "getting into the hands of swindlers," the article reports, before recounting the story of one New York resident who was contacted by a phony lender following her use of one of the sites. How are bank settlement fines calculated? It's hard to say exactly, writes Dealbook columnist Peter J. Henning. "When the government agrees to a settlement imposing civil penalties on a company, the amount appears to have been reached through negotiation without any effort to explain how the payment was calculated," he argues. "Of course, the beneficiary is often the United States Treasury because some penalties ... go straight to the government's coffers." JOIN THE DISCUSSION Comment SEE MORE IN National/Global IN PICTURES Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf's Eventful 2013 « » Tweet There were dividend increases, record profits and promising growth initiatives in businesses such as credit cards. But with the pressure on the company's mighty mortgage business intensifying, it wasn't all smooth sailing for American Banker's Banker of the Year. Comments (0) Be the first to comment on this post using the section below. Add Your Comments: Not Registered? You must be registered to post a comment. Click here to register. Already registered? Log in here Please note you must now log in with your email address and password. E-MAIL ADDRESS PASSWORD Remember me MOST READ MOST EMAILED Slate Writer Is Dead Wrong to Root Against Community Banks Untested Racial Bias Charges Put Banks in Tight Spot Housing Group Taps Dubious Data, HUD Ties to Demand Millions from Banks NCR Seeks to 'Profoundly Reinvent' Via Digital Insight, Alaric Buys More Banks Expected to Sell to Credit Unions Canadian Banks Manage Customers' Digital Personas; U.S. Banks Could Follow NCR Seeks to 'Profoundly Reinvent' Via Digital Insight, Alaric Buys Housing Group Taps Dubious Data, HUD Ties to Demand Millions from Banks PaymentsSource.com What's this? Debit ACI Tabs New Executives, Opens Office in Brazil Emerging Payments China Mobile Makes Moves to Speed NFC, 4G Capabilities Opinion Google Gets Aggressive in Mobile Wallet Rollout, But What's Next? Emerging Payments Korean Bitcoin Startup Receives $400,000 Investment Emerging Payments App Developer C-Sam Builds Platform for Custom MasterPass Wallets Debit Payments Vet Joe Proto Elected to Chair SpendSmart Board This feature displays payments industry news and analysis from American Banker sibling brand PaymentsSource. Registration is required; for more information contact customer service. TWITTER FACEBOOK LINKEDIN Tweets by @AmerBanker As the industry evolves, American Banker keeps pace. Going beyond breaking news and headline events, American Banker's editorial staff digs deeper than the mainstream business press to identify and analyze trends. Follow @AmerBanker   More Departments Risk Management See All » Markets Could Help the Fed End TBTF Keep the Volcker Rule Simple Final Volcker Rule to Be Released Dec. 10 Markets See All » City National Prices $100 Million Stock Sale F.N.B. to Raise $150M to Prepare for Basel III Ex-BB&T Exec Dolf Roell's Derivatives Play National See All » EU Fines Banks for Rate-Rigging; 'Twas the Week Before Volcker Rule Vote Ex-WaMu CEO Killinger Said to be Near Settlement in Bank Failure Markets Could Help the Fed End TBTF Washington See All » Markets Could Help the Fed End TBTF Keep the Volcker Rule Simple Why Big Is Bad in Government, Business, Banks Retail Delivery See All » BNZ Technology Reads People's Faces for Honest Feedback Wells Fargo Shares Best Practices for Gathering, Using Customer Feedback 7 Ways Banks Are Using Gaming Apps to Spark Engagement Mortgage See All » Overlooked in Housing Reform Debate: Risk of Lender Concentration Housing Finance 'Reform' Looks More Like a Replay B of A Reaches $404 Million Mortgage Deal with Freddie Mac Wealth Management See All » JPMorgan Names Head of Wealth Management Division U.S. Bancorp Replaces Head of High-Net-Worth Business Here's One More Reason U.S. Is Unlikely to Prosecute JPMorgan Mobile Banker See All » Making Customer Engagements More Dynamic via Mobile Devices More than a Third of Small Banks Offer Mobile Payments: Study BBVA Updates Mobile Apps with Remote Deposit for Small Business HOME About Us Contact Us Advertise with Us Subscribe Reprints Customer Service Feedback My Account Site Map Privacy Policy Subscription Agreement sourcemedia corporate site banking American Banker Bank Technology News American Banker Magazine Credit Union Journal MORTGAGES National Mortgage News PAYMENTS PaymentsSource Collections & Credit Risk ISO & Agent capital markets Mergers & Acquisitions Asset Securitization Report Leveraged Finance News Private Placement Letter Traders Magazine Securities Technology Monitor MUNICIPAL FINANCE The Bond Buyer accounting Accounting Today Tax Pro Today HEALTHCARE & BENEFITS Employee Benefit News Employee Benefit Adviser Health Data Management Insurance Networking News Information Management INVESTMENT ADVISORY Financial Planning On Wall Street Bank Investment Consultant Money Management Executive Investment Mgt. Mandate Pipeline © 2013 SourceMedia. All rights reserved. Already a subscriber? Log in here Please note you must now log in with your email address and password. E-MAIL ADDRESS PASSWORD Remember me Forgot your password? Does your company have a site license? Inquire here. Contact customer service. Already a print subscriber? Activate your online account. 
