Volvo completes tests of flywheel hybrid system | Fox News
 Fox News Digital Network   Fox News   Fox Business   uReport   Fox News Radio   Fox News Latino   Fox Nation   Fox News Insider Login Account You're logged in as   Profile Logout Search Site Listen to Fox News Radio Live › On Air Now › On Air Personalities ›   Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports On Air Previous Slide Next Slide Lifestyle Home Auto Food & Drink Real Estate Recipes Wine with Me Volvo completes tests of flywheel hybrid system By Viknesh VijayenthiranPublished April 25, 2013 High Gear Media Volvo Volvo Next Slide Previous Slide About two years ago we told you that Volvo was about to commence testing of an innovative flywheel-based kinetic energy recovery system (KERS), not in motorsport but in the realm of production cars. The basic setup called for a flywheel KERS to be fitted to the free axle of a car. When approaching a red light, the driver would hit the brakes like normal.This would cause the flywheel to spool up and keep spinning until the lights turn green and the driver hits the accelerator. At this point, the flywheel's rotation is transferred to the rear wheels via a specially designed transmission, giving the car a little boost of energy off the line. Volvo has announced that it has now completed extensive testing of the technology on public roads, using an S60 sedan as the test vehicle. According to the automaker, the results show that the technology combined with a turbocharged four-cylinder engine has the potential to reduce fuel consumption by as much as 25 percent compared with a turbocharged six-cylinder engine--while offering comparable performance. The energy stored in the flywheel is equivalent to an extra 80 horsepower. And when being transferred back to the wheels, swift torque build-up means rapid acceleration. The S60 test car would accelerate from 0-62 mph in about 5.5 seconds--remember, this is a turbocharged four-cylinder model we’re talking about. Researchers found that the system works best in urban environments, which makes sense since the duration of the energy storage (the length of time the flywheel spins) is limited. In addition, researchers found that the stored energy was sufficient to power the car for short periods, meaning the engine could be switched off for as much as 50 percent of the time. But the benefits don’t end there. Compared to a conventional gasoline-electric hybrid, Volvo’s flywheel KERS is lighter, cheaper and easier to maintain. Now that the technology has proven successful in one of its existing models, Volvo will start tests in prototypes for its upcoming models and further evaluate the performance before potentially putting the technology into production. More from Motor Authority   Print   Email   Share   Comments Recommend Tweet Share This Article View Article You must login to comment. View Article Advertisement LATEST LIFESTYLE VIDEOS Hyundai's Mighty Steed Katie Lee shares her home cooking More Lifestyle Videos › Trending in Lifestyle 1 Aussies unleash V8-powered chainsaw 2 Butter consumption in the U.S. reaches a 40-year high 3 The truth behind baby carrots 4 'Poo cake' sent to bride-to-be shocks party guests 5 Test Drive: 2014 Hyundai Equus See all trends › sbc More › Etsy CEO: IPO could be on the horizon Small Businesses Are Going Digital for 2014 Why Managers Shouldn't Treat All Employees the Same Advertisement Also on the web The Best Vodkas in the World Sexy Movie DVDs Too Hot to Handle Turn Heads with the Top 10 Exotic Sports Cars Top 10 Aphrodisiacs -- Romantic Foods that Rev Libidos The Country's Best Burgers Winter Lovin’: 9 Top Romantic Getaways in Jamaica Postcard-Perfect Florence: The Grand Hotel Minerva Your New Year’s Travel Resolution: Plan a Dream Hotel Stay for 2014 5 Surprising Hotel Freebies that Will Make Your Winter Break Awesome Trend Alert: The 5 Coolest Places to Go in 2014 40 Simple Shortcut Recipes 45 Speedy, Savory Soups and Stews 12 Surprising Sandwiches The Best Mac and Cheese 25 Decadent Holiday Desserts Sections Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports Weather Shows A Healthy You & Carol Alt America's News HQ America's Newsroom Cavuto Fox Files Fox News Sunday Fox & Friends First Fox & Friends Fox & Friends Weekend Geraldo at Large Greta Hannity Happening Now Huckabee   Justice with Judge Jeanine Media Buzz Red Eye w/ Gutfeld Shepard Smith Reporting Special Report Specials The Cost of Freedom The Five The Journal Editorial Report The Kelly File The O' Reilly Factor The Real Story War Stories Tools Live Video Trending uReport Newsletters Alerts Blogs Mobile Podcasts Radio Fox News Store Apps & Downloads About Careers College Students Fox Around the World Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Contact Us Email Newsroom FAQ Media Relations Follow   Facebook   Twitter   Google+   LinkedIn   RSS   Newsletters This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 
