9 crazy ways to get your caffeine fix | Fox News
 Fox News Digital Network   Fox News   Fox Business   uReport   Fox News Radio   Fox News Latino   Fox Nation   Fox News Insider Login Account You're logged in as   Profile Logout Search Site Listen to Fox News Radio Live › On Air Now › On Air Personalities ›   Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports On Air Previous Slide Next Slide Lifestyle Home Auto Food & Drink Real Estate Recipes Wine with Me 9 crazy ways to get your caffeine fix By Jessica ChouPublished May 06, 2013 The Daily Meal Vicious Vodka 1 Vicious Vodka X8 Energy Gum 2 X8 Energy Gum The Daily Meal 3 Cracker Jack'd ThinkGeek/The Daily Meal 4 DoubleKick Caffeinated Hot Sauce Next Slide Previous Slide While a double-shot of espresso might be just the thing to snap us out of our midday lulls (and post-lunch food comas), the world seems to have other plans. Since before the new millenium, caffeine-laced food and drink products have been on the rise, most notably with energy drinks targeted toward hyperactive teenagers everywhere. Now, the energy drink industry is expected to be worth $21.5 billion by 2017, jumping from $12.5 billion in 2012. The caffeine influx doesn't stop there; the stimulant has infiltrated all sorts of products, from candy to gum to alcohol. But let's not get too crazy, guys; the Mayo Clinic says that 200 to 300 milligrams of caffeine a day isn't harmful for most adults, but more than 500 milligrams can cause some complications. So to help you figure out just how to replace a daily cup of coffee, we've rounded up nine crazy ways to get your caffeine fix, comparing them to a standard cup of coffee (85 milligrams) so you can get your fill of candy or hot sauce with a little jolt to power through. 1Vicious Vodka Vicious Vodka Price: $26.99 Caffeine Content: 85 milligrams per cup According to a press packet, one cup of this vodka will give you the same amount of caffeine as a cup of coffee. Even better, the brand infuses the vodka with pure caffeine, rather than using taurine and gaurana, meaning more high and less nerves. Hold the Red Bull and just pour the vodka. 2X8 Energy Gum X8 Energy Gum Price: $4.95 Caffeine Content: 50 milligrams per piece Caffeinated gum has been around for a while, and there is definitely more than one option. X8’s new gum has 50 milligrams of caffeine a piece, while Wrigley’s Alert Energy gum and Jolt gum provide a smaller dose (40 milligrams). And L.A. Fuel? 100 milligrams of caffeine. 3Cracker Jack'd The Daily Meal Price: $9.24 for six 2-ounce bags Caffeine Content: 70 milligrams per package Two ounces of these pellet-like cookies reportedly give you a little less caffeine than a cup of coffee, and they come in coffee-esque flavors like vanilla mocha or cocoa java. It’s hardly like the Cracker Jacks we grew up with, but if you’re one for munching instead of slurping coffee, this might be for you. 4DoubleKick Caffeinated Hot Sauce ThinkGeek/The Daily Meal Price: $9.99 Caffeine Content: 12 milligrams per teaspoon If the act of eating spicy food still won’t keep you awake, DoubleKick caffeinated hot sauce might be a necessary condiment in your life. The sauce reportedly combines "Asian and Southwestern chili sauces" plus ginger and caffeine, but will require 7 teaspoons for the same amount of caffeine as a cup of coffee. Hopefully you can handle the heat. See all 9 crazy caffeine fixes at The Daily Meal More from The Daily Meal America's Best Coffee Shops New Starbucks Drinks Rolling Out 5 Easy Ways to Reuse Tea Coffee vs. Tea: What You Should Drink for the Most Health Benefits   Print   Email   Share   Comments Recommend Tweet More Lists 9 surprising factors that influence the price of your airline ticket Hot Wheels: Best Rides from Detroit Auto Show Top 10 diet books Beam Shares Barrel Higher and Other #Stocks2Watch Celebrities who think they are chefs 7 brain foods for breakfast Detoxing breakfasts to jumpstart healthy eating 5 of the coolest station wagons ever Those were the daaays.... Target's Woes Deepen and Other #Stocks2Watch Share This Article View Article You must login to comment. View Article Advertisement LATEST LIFESTYLE VIDEOS Return of the Targa Top The New Face of Chrysler More Lifestyle Videos › Trending in Lifestyle 1 2015 Z06 is the new king of Corvettes 2 Pizza Hut to offer 'by the slice' amid competition 3 Panera Bread apologizes after making disabled toddler take off 'squeaky' shoes 4 Aluminum-intensive 2015 Ford F-150 revealed 5 Honda Fit back in shape for 2015? See all trends › sbc More › NYC Mayor’s tax rhetoric driving away residents, jobs? The Difference Between High Achievers and Strugglers Storenvy to Charge for Marketplace Sales in 2014 Advertisement Also on the web The Best Vodkas in the World Sexy Movie DVDs Too Hot to Handle Turn Heads with the Top 10 Exotic Sports Cars Top 10 Aphrodisiacs -- Romantic Foods that Rev Libidos The Country's Best Burgers Choose Your Own (Water Sports) Adventure: 9 Top Spots for Surfing, Snorkeling, and More Winter Lovin’: 9 Top Romantic Getaways in Jamaica Postcard-Perfect Florence: The Grand Hotel Minerva Your New Year’s Travel Resolution: Plan a Dream Hotel Stay for 2014 5 Surprising Hotel Freebies that Will Make Your Winter Break Awesome 40 Simple Shortcut Recipes 45 Speedy, Savory Soups and Stews 12 Surprising Sandwiches The Best Mac and Cheese 25 Decadent Holiday Desserts Sections Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports Weather Shows A Healthy You & Carol Alt America's News HQ America's Newsroom Cavuto Fox Files Fox News Sunday Fox & Friends First Fox & Friends Fox & Friends Weekend Geraldo at Large Greta Hannity Happening Now Huckabee   Justice with Judge Jeanine Media Buzz Red Eye w/ Gutfeld Shepard Smith Reporting Special Report Specials The Cost of Freedom The Five The Journal Editorial Report The Kelly File The O' Reilly Factor The Real Story War Stories Tools Live Video Trending uReport Newsletters Alerts Blogs Mobile Podcasts Radio Fox News Store Apps & Downloads About Careers College Students Fox Around the World Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Contact Us Email Newsroom FAQ Media Relations Follow   Facebook   Twitter   Google+   LinkedIn   RSS   Newsletters This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 
