The claim that Geithner was briefed about IRS targeting five months before the 2012 election
 Real Estate Rentals Cars Today's Paper Going Out Guide Find&Save Service Alley Home PostTV In PostTV Politics In Politics Congress Courts & Law The Fed Page Health Care Polling White House GovBeat Md. Politics Va. Politics D.C. Politics Blogs & Columns Tom Kean: Christie’s leadership should give voters pause Post Politics | Karen Tumulty 5 big unanswered questions in Bridge-gate The Fix | Chris Cillizza Aaron Swartz died one year ago today The Monkey Cage | Henry Farrell Jerry Brown no fan of legal pot GovBeat | Reid Wilson Majority in Congress are millionaires The Federal Eye | Josh Hicks Opinions In Opinions Toles Cartoons Telnaes Animations The Post's View Letters to the Editor Local Opinions Columnist Index Featured Blogs Shia LaBeouf has retired! ComPost | Alexandra Petri Open Thread The Plum Line | Greg Sargent 6 humorous visuals on Chris Christie PostPartisan | Swati Sharma Iran sanctions pressure mounts Right Turn | Jennifer Rubin Local In Local D.C. Maryland Virginia Crime Education Obituaries Transportation Weather Blogs & Columns Blogs & Columns Rainy today, plus a pleasant Sunday Capital Weather Gang | Ian Livingston Dino to extend its stay in Cleveland Park to Feb. 23. Going Out Guide | Tim Carman Virginia transportation projects to watch in 2014 Dr. Gridlock | Robert Thomson Sports In Sports Redskins/NFL Capitals/NHL Wizards/NBA Nationals/MLB D.C. United/Soccer Colleges AllMetSports Blogs & Columns Other Sports Blogs & Columns Agent: Caps and Grabovski in early stages of contract extension talks Capitals Insider | Katie Carrera London Fletcher gets a cake DC Sports Bog | Sarah Kogod Haslett, Morris, McVay still thought to be staying with Redskins The Insider | By Mike Jones and Mark Maske Nationals, Strasburg avoid arbitration Nationals Journal | Adam Kilgore National In National Energy & Environment Health & Science Education National Security Investigations Innovations Know More Religion On Giving Corrections Blogs & Columns Peak TV: Forget about innovations. Innovations | Matt McFarland Circumcision less common in U.S. and parts of Europe Michelle Boorstein Yes, Greensboro Four pioneer Franklin McCain, you did plenty She The People | Mary C. Curtis World In World Africa The Americas Asia & Pacific Europe Middle East National Security War Zones Special Reports Columns & Blogs Blogs & Columns Image sums up South Sudan’s crisis WorldViews | Max Fisher Photos of Castro’s first appearance in months WorldViews | Max Fisher The 10 fastest-growing economies WorldViews | Max Fisher How Mideasterners think women should dress WorldViews | Max Fisher Business In Business Economy Industries Markets Policy & Regulation Know More World Business Capital Business On Leadership On Small Business On I.T. Blogs & Columns Countdown to the 21-Day Financial Fast The Color of Money | Michelle Singletary The story of the CFPB’s tumultuous beginnings Wonkblog | Lydia DePillis Training a new generation of special agents On Leadership | Tom Fox Tech In Technology Innovation Green Technology The Switch Photo Galleries Blogs & Columns Neiman Marcus confirms data breach Hayley Tsukayama Cybercrime law used to prosecute Aaron Swartz remains intact The Switch | Andrea Peterson Neiman Marcus: We were hacked, too The Switch | Brian Fung Aereo is getting the Supreme Court fight it wanted The Switch | Andrea Peterson Lifestyle In Lifestyle Advice Carolyn Hax Food Express Home & Garden Style Travel Weddings Wellness Magazine KidsPost On Parenting Blogs & Columns Golden Globes: Looking back at hosts Tina Fey and Amy Poehler’s best TV moments The Style Blog | Emily Yahr Jay Gruden is your average dude The Reliable Source | Emily Heil Entertainment In Entertainment Books Comics Going Out Guide Horoscopes Movies Museums Music Puzzles & Games Theater & Dance TV Blogs & Columns ‘I’ve finally made it!’: Stan Lee, the Hub team on new movie Comic Riffs | Michael Cavna Dino to extend its stay in Cleveland Park to Feb. 23. Going Out Guide | Tim Carman Jobs In Jobs More Classifieds Cars Deals Real Estate Rentals Photos Blogs Discussions Find&Save Obituaries Archives Topics WP Wine Club WP BrandConnect The Fact Checker The Truth Behind The Rhetoric | By Glenn Kessler Congress How did Rand Paul’s son end up on Medicaid? How much is Obama to blame for the worst labor participation rate in 40 years? Harry Reid’s claim that under Obamacare 9 million people ‘have health care that didn’t have it before’ The GOP claim that more Americans have lost insurance than gained it under Obamacare Schumer’s claims about Democratic and GOP efforts to ‘fix’ Obamacare View all Tag Posts Issues Social Security: A guide to critical questions The White House’s claim that 7 million enrolled in Obamacare ‘was never our target number’ How much has the United States been ‘standing up against’ atrocities in Burma? The most popular fact checks of 2013 Holder’s 2009 claim that intimate-partner homicide is the leading cause of death for African American women View all Tag Posts Obama The most popular fact checks of 2013 The biggest Pinocchios of 2013 Obama’s claims on death rates and poverty due to a lack of health insurance Obama’s claim that there is ‘no solid evidence’ that boosting the minimum wage harms jobs The most popular fact checks of November (It’s still almost all about Obamacare) View all Tag Posts Political Ads The most popular fact checks of 2013 The biggest Pinocchios of 2013 The bogus claim that Obama is ‘closing’ the Vatican embassy Did Mary Landrieu cast the ‘deciding’ vote for Obamacare? Keystone XL pipeline ad suggests Canadian crude will reduce ‘reliance on foreign energy’ View all Tag Posts 2016 Candidates The bogus claim that Obama is ‘closing’ the Vatican embassy Ted Cruz’s fuzzy math about the ‘trade-off at the heart of Obamacare’ Ted Cruz’s claims on Obamacare focus on losers, not winners Rand Paul’s claim that there is ‘no reason for us to default’ View all Tag Posts About Archives Follow: More The claim that Geithner was briefed about IRS targeting five months before the 2012 election By Glenn Kessler September 20, 2013 at 6:00 am More Comments “Right there, we think also the Treasury Secretary himself was in the meeting. We think this idea that you didn’t know until May of this year–you knew in June of 2012. And so don’t give us this phony scandal stuff. Don’t give us this idea, oh, shazam, we didn’t find out until Lois Lerner gave her speech and the inspector general released his audit.” – Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), on Fox News’ “On the Record,” Sept. 18, 2013 This is an interesting issue for a fact check. A lawmaker goes on national television and citing new documents, strongly suggests that, just months before the presidential election, then-Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner knew about the IRS’s apparent targeting of Tea Party and other conservative organizations. “So we know the top people at the IRS were given a heads up when the inspector general was just starting to audit May of 2012,” five months before the election, Jordan told Fox. He also said that he would support a subpoena of Geithner: “Get him in front of the committee and ask him under oath, did you know about this in June. If you did, why didn’t you say something?” But there’s a problem. Testimony already before Congress shows Inspector General Russell George has already indicated he never met with Geithner. And Geithner’s publicly released schedule shows there was no meeting with George on that day. “Secretary Geithner did not attend the June 4, 2012, monthly bureau head meeting referenced in the released document,” said Treasury spokeswoman Jennifer Friedman. In other words, the previous testimony still stands: Treasury officials were made aware of the existence of the audit in June 2012, per standard IG procedure, but they were not made aware of the findings until March 2013. So why would Jordan rush onto TV? The Facts Here’s what George said to Congress on May 17: “I alerted the [IRS] commissioner, then-Commissioner [Douglas] Shulman, on May 30th, 2012. I subsequently alerted the general counsel of the Department of the Treasury on June 4th, and subsequently — and I do not have the exact date — alerted the deputy secretary, Neal Wolin about this matter. And then, upon assumption into the position [as of Feb. 28, 2013], I mentioned it to Secretary [Jack] Lew.” Note that there is no mention of Geithner. George also described what he called regular monthly meetings of bureau heads:  “With the IRS leadership, we meet monthly with the commissioner or acting commissioner on a standing basis, and then we’ll have communications as necessary. The secretary holds a monthly meeting with bureau heads and in conjunction with those meetings, I meet monthly with the general counsel of the Department of the Treasury and then on an as-needed basis with the deputy secretary, Mr. Wolin.” On May 22, George testified again and said this about his description of the audit at the meetings: “We’d obviously had not concluded the audit, so we did not have final determinations at that time. I’m operating from memory here. And it was a while ago and I had no idea this issue would come up in this manner. But the bottom line is I cannot say with certainty that I said to him this was definitively happening. I said, this is the allegation, this is what we’re looking at.” And here is how Wolin described his meeting with George, also during testimony on May 22:  “At some point in 2012, though I do not recall precisely when, Mr. George notified me, at his initiative, that he had undertaken an audit of the IRS’s review of tax-exempt applications.  He told me only of the fact that he had undertaken such an audit, and he did not provide any findings.  That is my recollection, and that is what Mr. George testified before the House Ways and Means Committee last Friday and before the Senate Finance Committee yesterday.” So what was new when Jordan went on television? First, there was an email about a “secretary’s meeting” on June 4, 2012.   Treasury email by The Washington Post   But “the secretary’s meeting” turns out to just be monthly bureau heads meeting. And Geithner did not attend that meeting, as his schedule shows, and as Treasury stated in a statement to The Fact Checker. Second, investigators obtained a briefing paper for George about the investigation, for possible use at the meeting, from that period. Audit Briefing Paper by The Washington Post But neither of these documents suggest that top Treasury officials, let alone Geithner, learned any more than the fact that the audit was taking place. As Wolin put it in his testimony: “Mr. George told me that he was conducting an audit, and I told him to follow the facts wherever they lead.  Our core principle is that we do not interfere in any way – or do anything to create the perception of interference – with the independent review of an inspector general.  When an inspector general tells us he is conducting a review, we step back and leave him to do his work.  That is how the process functions.  That is how the process should function.  And that is how the process functioned here.” A spokesman for the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee noted that it is unknown whether Geithner was ever briefed on what his staff learned about the IG investigation. But Treasury officials have no recollection of discussing it with Geithner during that period. Moreover, GOP investigators have not demonstrated that Treasury officials learned anything more than the fact that there was an audit. The Pinocchio Test Jordan appeared on television and suggested he had a smoking gun concerning the former Treasury secretary, with the slight caveat of  “we think.” But testimony and information already received by the committee shows there is much less here than meets the eye, and certainly little that suggests Geithner needs to be subpoenaed. As the investigation continues, we can certainly update this ruling if more information emerges about a possible briefing for Geithner. But lawmakers should be careful about going on national television and making charges for which they have little evidence. It was known already that George told top Treasury officials —but not Geithner — that an audit had been launched to examine the allegations, but that was it. The documents that Jordan breathlessly described on television have added little to that picture. We wavered back and forth about whether this was worthy of Two or Three Pinocchios. Jordan’s rush to judgment was unseemly; generally, an unsupported allegation, especially when prior information undermines it, should not be excused. But his comments do not quite rise to the same level as Rep. Mike Rogers’s claim earlier this year  that the White House engaged in criminal behavior. Two Pinocchios ( About our rating scale) Check out our candidate Pinocchio Tracker Follow The Fact Checker on Twitter and friend us on Facebook Glenn Kessler has reported on domestic and foreign policy for more than three decades. He would like your help in keeping an eye on public figures. Send him statements to fact check by emailing him, tweeting at him, or sending him a message on Facebook. Also on The Fact Checker Obama’s claim that non-budget items have ‘never’ been attached to the debt ceiling The Post Most 1 McAuliffe sworn in as Virginia governor 2 Christie bridge controversy exposes a GOP rising star to new scrutiny 3 Single university president signs school contract restricting her love life 4 A slave's audacious escape 5 U.S. Figure Skating Championships: Abbott sets American record in short program 
