A guide to Obamacare claims, pro and con
 Real Estate Rentals Cars Today's Paper Going Out Guide Find&Save Service Alley Home PostTV In PostTV Politics In Politics Congress Courts & Law The Fed Page Health Care Polling White House GovBeat Md. Politics Va. Politics D.C. Politics Blogs & Columns Gates: Obama’s ‘red line’ on Syria was huge mistake Post Politics | Aaron Blake The best number for Chris Christie in the NBC/Marist poll The Fix | Chris Cillizza Appropriations bill removes restrictions on political science funding The Monkey Cage | Joshua Tucker The N.H. House just became the first state body to OK pot sales, group says GovBeat | Niraj Chokshi Spending bill trims funding for new DHS headquarters The Federal Eye | Josh Hicks Opinions In Opinions Toles Cartoons Telnaes Animations The Post's View Letters to the Editor Local Opinions Columnist Index Featured Blogs Nope, Richard Black, just because ‘she’s in a nightie’ does not mean you have consent ComPost | Alexandra Petri Happy Hour Roundup The Plum Line | Ryan Cooper LGBT split-screen: Oklahoma and Nigeria PostPartisan | Jonathan Capehart Shaheen in trouble? Right Turn | Jennifer Rubin Local In Local D.C. Maryland Virginia Crime Education Obituaries Transportation Weather Blogs & Columns Blogs & Columns Rain to snow showers tonight, at historically coldest time of year Capital Weather Gang | Ian Livingston Bluejacket brewery tours begin Jan. 31 Going Out Guide | Alex Baldinger American drops direct Reagan National flights to 17 cities Dr. Gridlock | Ashley Halsey III Sports In Sports Redskins/NFL Capitals/NHL Wizards/NBA Nationals/MLB D.C. United/Soccer Colleges AllMetSports Blogs & Columns Other Sports Blogs & Columns Open thread: Caps at Pens Capitals Insider | Katie Carrera PSL: Gruden’s staff takes shape DC Sports Bog | Mitch Rubin Olivadotti returning to Redskins as defensive assistant The Insider | Mark Maske Nats extend deal with Harrisburg Nationals Journal | Tracee Hamilton National In National Energy & Environment Health & Science Education National Security Investigations Innovations Know More Religion On Giving Corrections Blogs & Columns Ohio State savors spotlight of Apple ad Innovations | Matt McFarland Circumcision less common in U.S. and parts of Europe Michelle Boorstein Dying’s not so easy She The People | Diana Reese World In World Africa The Americas Asia & Pacific Europe Middle East National Security War Zones Special Reports Columns & Blogs Blogs & Columns Egypt’s self-defeating crackdowns WorldViews | Max Fisher U.S. probably not backing Mexican cartel WorldViews | Max Fisher The happiest countries are rich, but not too rich WorldViews | Max Fisher Ariel Sharon, in one quote WorldViews | Max Fisher Business In Business Economy Industries Markets Policy & Regulation Know More World Business Capital Business On Leadership On Small Business On I.T. Blogs & Columns Color of Money: New mortgage rules tough but fair The Color of Money | Michelle Singletary The best sentences we read today Wonkblog | Brad Plumer Women-owned hedge funds outperform the market On Leadership | Jena McGregor Tech In Technology Innovation Green Technology The Switch Photo Galleries Blogs & Columns Apple will pay at least $32.5 million over in-app purchases Cecilia Kang and Hayley Tsukayama Cyber Command’s hockey-stick growth The Switch | Brian Fung Amazing minimalist Lego versions of ‘Star Wars’ ships The Switch | Andrea Peterson FTC announces settlement with Apple over kids’ apps The Switch | Hayley Tsukayama Lifestyle In Lifestyle Advice Carolyn Hax Food Express Home & Garden Style Travel Weddings Wellness Magazine KidsPost On Parenting Blogs & Columns ‘The Summit’ at Arena Stage: Three evenings for theater lovers The Style Blog | Peter Marks Bruce Springsteen’s top three political moments The Reliable Source | JulieAnn McKellogg Entertainment In Entertainment Books Comics Going Out Guide Horoscopes Movies Museums Music Puzzles & Games Theater & Dance TV Blogs & Columns ‘I’ve finally made it!’: Stan Lee, the Hub team on new movie Comic Riffs | Michael Cavna Bluejacket brewery tours begin Jan. 31 Going Out Guide | Alex Baldinger Jobs In Jobs More Classifieds Cars Deals Real Estate Rentals Photos Blogs Discussions Find&Save Obituaries Archives Topics WP Wine Club WP BrandConnect The Fact Checker The Truth Behind The Rhetoric | By Glenn Kessler Congress Rubio’s claim that Medicaid expansion funds will ‘go away’ The McCain-Graham claim that Iraq’s ‘main political blocs were supportive’ of keeping U.S. troops in Iraq How did Rand Paul’s son end up on Medicaid? How much is Obama to blame for the worst labor participation rate in 40 years? Harry Reid’s claim that under Obamacare 9 million people ‘have health care that didn’t have it before’ View all Tag Posts Issues The McCain-Graham claim that Iraq’s ‘main political blocs were supportive’ of keeping U.S. troops in Iraq Social Security: A guide to critical questions The White House’s claim that 7 million enrolled in Obamacare ‘was never our target number’ How much has the United States been ‘standing up against’ atrocities in Burma? The most popular fact checks of 2013 View all Tag Posts Obama The most popular fact checks of 2013 The biggest Pinocchios of 2013 Obama’s claims on death rates and poverty due to a lack of health insurance Obama’s claim that there is ‘no solid evidence’ that boosting the minimum wage harms jobs The most popular fact checks of November (It’s still almost all about Obamacare) View all Tag Posts Political Ads An anti-‘Obamacare’ attack ad that sticks close to the facts The most popular fact checks of 2013 The biggest Pinocchios of 2013 The bogus claim that Obama is ‘closing’ the Vatican embassy Did Mary Landrieu cast the ‘deciding’ vote for Obamacare? View all Tag Posts 2016 Candidates Rubio’s claim that Medicaid expansion funds will ‘go away’ How did Rand Paul’s son end up on Medicaid? The bogus claim that Obama is ‘closing’ the Vatican embassy Ted Cruz’s fuzzy math about the ‘trade-off at the heart of Obamacare’ Ted Cruz’s claims on Obamacare focus on losers, not winners View all Tag Posts About Archives Follow: More A guide to Obamacare claims, pro and con By Glenn Kessler September 27, 2013 at 6:00 am More Comments The Fact Checker will be away for the next couple of weeks, tending to a family commitment. Presumably the nation will still be teetering on the edge of default, or something like that, when the column returns. In honor of the implementation of the Affordable Care Act, aka Obamacare, here are some of the major claims that we have vetted, pro or con, about the law, as many are constantly repeated. Click on the headline if you want to read the full column. As an added bonus, we have included above a nifty video by our colleague Sarah Kliff, who explains how Obamacare is supposed to work, in just two minutes.   “For 85 to 90 percent of Americans who have health insurance, there are no worries” A vast majority of Americans already have health insurance and many get it through their employers. But contrary to the implication that only people with no insurance or poor insurance will have to worry about implementation, there are a variety of studies and reports that suggest that, beyond those groups, some 10 million people face the prospect of losing their current health care. According to the  Congressional Budget Office’s most recent estimate, by 2018, after the law is fully implemented, 7 million people will be dropped from their employer health plans and 5 million people will shift out of private plans. (Note: this is updated from the numbers listed in the original column.) Not all of the people who shift out of private plans are currently in bad plans; some may simply be priced out of the market as rates increase. And even unions, which were big supporters of the law, have grown wary because it may drive up costs for their health-care plans. Many of the law’s new taxes, including a Medicare surcharge and taxes on investments for the wealthy,  take effect this year. That’s  a total of $1 trillion between 2013 and 2022. Meanwhile, the Medicare actuary also has  warned that the sharp reductions in payments to Medicare providers could force the closure or exit from Medicare of 15 percent of hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and home health agencies by 2019 — and 40 percent by 2050. In other words, the impact may well be felt even by people who are happy with their current insurance. Two Pinocchios     “The Affordable Care Act is helping to slow the growth of health-care costs.” National health expenditures grew at  an estimated annual rate of 4.3 percent in 2012, resulting in the fourth straight year of about 4 percent growth — a record in the past half-century. At this point, no one is really quite sure why health-care costs have suddenly slowed — but many analysts believe the Great Recession played an important role. Government actuaries last year published  an article in Health Affairs predicting health-care costs would begin to spike — to an annual rate of 7.4 percent in 2014 — as the health-care law was implemented. Still, despite all the claims and counter claims, no analyst can really understand the impact of the law until it fully kicks in and its effects can begin to be measured. Two Pinocchios     “Americans have saved $3.4 billion in premiums, on top of rebates, in 2012” The law contains a provision under which insurance companies must rebate a portion of the premiums if they spent less than 80 percent of the premium on medical care and efforts to improve care. In 2012, insurance companies shipped about $500 million in rebates, about $100 per family, though much of the savings ended up with the companies providing health insurance. But President Obama has gone further and claimed that insurance companies further reduced their premiums in order to avoid having to send out rebates. But experts said the estimate was based on fuzzy reasoning and it is quite possible other factors were responsible. One Pinocchio     “Obama promised to cut insurance premiums by $2,500 but they have risen by $3,000” Obama made a dubious pledge in the 2008 campaign, ridiculed by fact checkers at the time. (It came with a caveat: he was not saying premiums would fall by $2,500, but that health-care costs per person would be that much lower than anticipated.) But the claim of $3,000 in higher premiums is a non sequitur, based on a Kaiser Family Foundation survey. The health care law has not been implemented  yet, and the Kaiser survey, in fact, makes no judgment on whether the Affordable Care Act has played much of role in the increase in premiums. Indeed, the rate of the increase under Obama, a little under 6 percent per year, is more than half the rate of premium increases in the decade before Obama took office. The raw numbers, thus, obscure what many would consider to be a good-news story. Still, as we have noted in another column, the law mandates a robust package of benefits and requires that the amount an older individual pays will be no more than three times what a younger individual pays. So some people, such as a young male who currently has a plan that does not include all of the required benefits, are likely going to have sticker shock. Two Pinocchios       “The IRS will be in charge of your health care” The IRS certainly has an important role in implementing the law, particularly in collecting the taxes and penalties that help fund the expansion of health care to millions of Americans. But it’s too much to suggest that the IRS would now be running health care in the United States, especially since the law leaves the employer-based system largely intact. The IRS, by contrast, is mostly the bill collector. It will validate whether people have insurance, but it will have no access to private health-care data. Two Pinocchios       “Obamacare is a job killer” There’s no link in the headline to a particular column because this is a recurring theme, with various data points that opponents point to. We have exposed a misleading poll, issued by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which suggested 75 percent of small businesses surveyed would fire workers or cut hours under Obamacare. Not only was this an Internet opt-in poll, which meant it shed little light on the opinions all small business owners, but the real figure was under 8.5 percent. We have also written repeatedly about a CBO estimate that is frequently portrayed as saying the law would kill 800,000 jobs. The reality is more prosaic. Boiled down to plain English, the CBO essentially says that some people, who are now in the work force because they need health insurance, will decide to stop working because Obamacare guaranteed they would have access to health care. The 800,000-figure stems from a very rough guesstimate (percentage of gross domestic product) of the impact a decade from now. As for the frequent claims about the impact of Obamacare on part-time employment, there’s really not enough data to make a judgment. Yes, there are anecdotes here and there, but none of that adds up to a real trend. We encountered this issue when we examined the case of the City of Long Beach amid reports that it was shifting 1,600 workers to part-time because of the health care law. The initial reports were overstated. Still, one would expect the law to have some impact, especially at the margins. As of 2015, companies with more than 50 full-time workers must provide health insurance to all workers or face a $2,000 per person penalty, after the first 30 full-time employees. There also is a separate $3,000-per-employee targeted penalty if the employer coverage is inadequate or unaffordable, though it can’t exceed the first penalty. Moreover, a full-time job is defined as just 30 hours per week. The majority of firms with more than 50 employees — about 96 percent — already offer health-care coverage, but not necessarily to all employees.  By one estimate, derived from Employee Benefits Research Institute research by an Obamacare critic, 46 percent of the nation’s uninsured workers are employed by large firms. At the moment, we just have noise. Goldman Sachs, in a research report, cautioned that “while it is possible that the trends over the last few months might reflect the approaching onset of the now-delayed employer mandate, it is also important to note that the shift toward part-time labor pre-dates enactment of the health law and is much more clearly associated with the economic downturn.” It will take probably three years of data to understand fully how Obamacare has affected labor markets. So, in the meantime, pay little attention to such “job-killer” claims. ( About our rating scale) Check out our candidate Pinocchio Tracker Follow The Fact Checker on Twitter and friend us on Facebook Glenn Kessler has reported on domestic and foreign policy for more than three decades. He would like your help in keeping an eye on public figures. Send him statements to fact check by emailing him, tweeting at him, or sending him a message on Facebook. « The AP Yemen leak case: When speculation about White House spinning turns out wrong Rand Paul’s claim that there is ‘no reason for us to default’ » Also on The Fact Checker The AP Yemen leak case: When speculation about White House spinning turns out wrong The Post Most 1 40 more maps that explain the world 2 The great American pizza map(s) 3 Senate report: Attack on U.S. compound in Benghazi could have been prevented 4 American Airlines ends direct service to 17 cities from Reagan National under merger deal 5 Daily Show's Samantha Bee performs terrifying, impressive take on 'The Five' 
