Reality Roundup: Bachelor Ben Gets Naked | Video - ABC News
 Now Texting Shooting • Octomom Fraud • Kanye West • Evan Ross and Ashlee Simpson • Nest • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Reality Roundup: Bachelor Ben Gets Naked PureWow.com's Amy Palmer dishes on "The Bachelor" and "Real Housewives." 03:45 | 01/31/2012 Related Links: Watch: Joan Rivers Keeps It Real Watch: Fairy Tale 'Facade' RELATED TOPICS: The Bachelor • Radar Online Share: Transcript for Reality Roundup: Bachelor Ben Gets Naked I need you all caught up on the latest celebrity last night with -- night in the world of reality TV and -- to break -- -- -- practice allowed dot com Amy honorary degree at the time you start with... See More I need you all caught up on the latest celebrity last night with -- night in the world of reality TV and -- to break -- -- -- practice allowed dot com Amy honorary degree at the time you start with the bachelor. Somebody made the last night. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Courtney basically is to do you spend and got him to go skinny did mean. In the waters in pottery. And he's four he went where he's a typical I -- excellence this isn't the right thing you. However I have no chance of seeing this as you can see right there you really think it yet so they can water with more I have to and -- -- -- -- what happened and yet but the girls don't know about it so her and banner having this secret together. Which isn't -- now and -- is trying to Warren and some are yes and he's really Smart she's studying to be -- -- she's kind of the voice of reason she keeps trying to tell Ben -- Courtney is not here for the right reasons and -- is saying listen once you step off here they are had a conversation. And he's saying just be careful don't focus too -- energy and Courtney focus and you and a sense that evening at her in her camp I think it'd but he -- last night. Now. He did keeper right and -- he did -- -- Had Tonya I have to tell you think Courtney and I keep talking -- your producer -- everybody and I think he -- -- when I just think that men like pretty things I think that and is that really nice guy but I think he's in over. And watch this the end I had no idea I think. I actually think that's going to be -- You haven't -- history even -- -- I -- -- well. I mean yeah. -- work that I. But the real housewives of Beverly -- because kind of serious last night some people think maybe. Mr. should not gone on after -- to -- at last night was part one of its three part series. The reunions this is when -- Constance Johnson sits down and -- -- Bellini is. And he brought up the fact that many people thought that the -- shouldn't have continued after Russell's suicide Camille is one of those people is that I don't think it's an air. Taylor actually won its hair she thought that it would be a good example. For women in that similar situation -- she actually went as far as to say. It's he felt the show actually saved her life that being a public figure meant that Russell. Wouldn't hurt her. -- -- I mean it's horrible to say us kind of thinking -- out to the situation -- Russell would have. You know looked at -- -- this is wrong I think she was really hoping that things would get -- Wow an Alley in it the reunions around -- -- I didn't think that doesn't take long for people to start. You know I've seen it salaries. -- Everybody who is telling -- and -- pump. We know that you penciled stories through radar online and Lisa is sitting there saying -- been talking. You've -- her in this -- -- she's kind of she's really on the intact here defending yourself an aging is saying I know for a fact that she did that. It ended up with the women apologizing to leave but there is some questionable. Thoughts about the -- is true or not Lisa does not -- the money let's face it right away you know of the woman's living in the lap of luxury so I don't think she needs you 20000 dollars rerun rights it. Mayor admitted there may be no proof and him -- and again this is part one of the three part series and we can only imagine as the weakest a lot of will get more. He we have a lot to look. At the -- -- This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate. Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 2:45 PM ET In The Game remind me 3:00 PM ET News Pop remind me 3:30 PM ET Headlines & Weather remind me 3:45 PM ET Second Tour remind me 4:00 PM ET Closing Bell remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS sections: Most Popular U.S. World Politics Health Entertainment Tech Travel Money Brian Ross Investigates The Assets: Meet the Real People Digital Reports Digital Originals Extreme Video ABC News Audio Home > Video > Most Popular Dispute in Movie Theater Ends in Fatal Shooting Dispute in Movie Theater Ends in Fatal Shooting Florida authorities arrest man suspected in shooting a couple over cell phone use. Brawl Erupts Outside Florida Movie Theater Brawl Erupts Outside Florida Movie Theater Police say 600-person melee in parking lot started after a group tried to storm the theater without tickets. Moviegoer Shot to Death After Texting Argument Moviegoer Shot to Death After Texting Argument A retired police captain allegedly shot and killed a man in a Florida theater. James Holmes Trial Could Last Months James Holmes Trial Could Last Months Colorado judge says jury selection could take three months and the trial could last five months. Texting Allegedly Triggers Movie Theater Shooting by Retired Police Captain Texting Allegedly Triggers Movie Theater Shooting by Retired Police Captain Chad Oulson was on a date with his wife, and wanted to send a text message to their young daughter. Two People Shot at Florida Movie Theater Two People Shot at Florida Movie Theater Man suspected in the shooting at a Tampa Bay area theater is in custody. Mom in Homeless Beating Death: 'They Murdered My Son' Mom in Homeless Beating Death: 'They Murdered My Son' Kelly Thomas's parents decry not guilty verdict of two California police officers charged in their son's death. Passenger Films Hawaiian Plane Crash from Inside Cabin Passenger Films Hawaiian Plane Crash from Inside Cabin Ferdinand Puentes captured the moment of impact and evacuation of Dec. plane crash that killed one. Madeleine McCann Case: 3 Alleged Burglars to Be Interviewed Madeleine McCann Case: 3 Alleged Burglars to Be Interviewed Detectives reportedly asked Portuguese authorities to find three suspects in girl's disappearance. 'Octomom' Faces Jail Time in Welfare Fraud Case 'Octomom' Faces Jail Time in Welfare Fraud Case Nadya Suleman, 38, could spend up to six years in prison if convicted of felony welfare fraud. Homeless Man Beating: Video Shown in Court Homeless Man Beating: Video Shown in Court Two California police officers could be tried for the death of Kelly Thomas. Maddy McCann Mystery: Police Release Images of Possible Kidnap Suspect Maddy McCann Mystery: Police Release Images of Possible Kidnap Suspect Scotland Yard is still searching for leads in the 2007 disappearance of a little girl in Portugal. 1 Dead, 1 Missing After Fall Into River to Retrieve Phone 1 Dead, 1 Missing After Fall Into River to Retrieve Phone One of the victims tried to retrieve a cell phone from the icy waters, two others tried to rescue him. Shots Fired at New Mexico Middle School Shots Fired at New Mexico Middle School A suspect is in custody after opening fire at Berrendo Middle School in Roswell. 'American Hustle,' Golden Globe Hosts Rule the Night 'American Hustle,' Golden Globe Hosts Rule the Night Jennifer Lawrence and Amy Adams walked away with wins for their performances. 1 of 2 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
