Behind the Scenes of 'Harry Loves Lisa' | Video - ABC News
 Now Chris Christie • Pound A Day Diet • Golden Globe 2014 • Target Data Breach • Google • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Behind the Scenes of 'Harry Loves Lisa' Lisa Rinna and Harry Hamlin talk about their new show on TV Land. 06:06 | 10/12/2010 Share: Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 1:00 PM ET News Pop remind me 1:15 PM ET Entertainment Pop remind me 1:30 PM ET Headlines & Weather remind me 1:45 PM ET Tech This Out remind me 2:00 PM ET News Pop remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS sections: Most Popular U.S. World Politics Health Entertainment Tech Travel Money Brian Ross Investigates The Assets: Meet the Real People Digital Reports Digital Originals Extreme Video ABC News Audio Home > Video > Most Popular Passenger Films as Plane Crashes Into Ocean Passenger Films as Plane Crashes Into Ocean Eight of the 9 people on board survived the small plane crash off the coast of Hawaii in December. Hawaii Plane Crash Blamed on Engine Failure Hawaii Plane Crash Blamed on Engine Failure Hawaii Health Director Loretta Fuddy was the only passenger who died in the crash. 'Atomic Wedgie' Kills Oklahoma Man, Police Say 'Atomic Wedgie' Kills Oklahoma Man, Police Say Brad Davis is accused of suffocating his stepfather with the 58-year-old man's own underwear. Utah Family Survives Plane Crash: Caught On Tape Utah Family Survives Plane Crash: Caught On Tape Jonathan Fielding was treating his wife, Kara, to her first flight ever on her birthday. Christie Couldn't Pick Fort Lee Mayor 'Out of a Lineup' Christie Couldn't Pick Fort Lee Mayor 'Out of a Lineup' New Jersey governor says he never asked to meet Mark Sokolich during his re-election campaign. Survivor: Hawaii Plane Crash 'Like Instant Brakes' Survivor: Hawaii Plane Crash 'Like Instant Brakes' All but one of nine passengers on a small plane survived the crash. Anne Hathaway Injured in Near-Drowning Incident Anne Hathaway Injured in Near-Drowning Incident The actress was swept out to sea while swimming in Hawaii. Chris Christie's Top Voice-Raising Moments Chris Christie's Top Voice-Raising Moments The New Jersey governor has proven time and again that he's no wallflower. Chris Christie Is Big on 'Responsibility' Chris Christie Is Big on 'Responsibility' The New Jersey governor repeatedly takes responsibility for his staffers' actions. Friend Charged in Teen Actress' Killing Friend Charged in Teen Actress' Killing Police say Daniel Bartelt, 19, strangled Jessie Blodgett. Small Plane Crashes in Michigan Small Plane Crashes in Michigan Cockpit video captured the moment the aircraft nose dived into a cornfield. Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis The 29-year-old woman who had no known medical conditions had not gotten a flu shot. West Virginians Scramble for Water After Chemical Spill West Virginians Scramble for Water After Chemical Spill A chemical spill in the Elk River caused the governor to declare a state of emergency. Solar Storm to Slam Earth Poses One-Week Threat Solar Storm to Slam Earth Poses One-Week Threat The geomagnetic storm could cause communication problems for satellites. Explosives Found Near Sochi Ahead of Olympics Explosives Found Near Sochi Ahead of Olympics Russian authorities were investigating the discovery of five bodies. 1 of 2 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
