Screen Stars Demi Moore and Parker Posey | Video - ABC News
 Now Ariel Sharon • Daisy Coleman • Bill de Blasio • Chris Christie • Target Data Breach • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Screen Stars Demi Moore and Parker Posey The actresses discuss their roles as sisters in the new dramedy "Happy Tears." 02/16/2010 Share: Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 9:00 AM ET GMA Live remind me 9:15 AM ET News Pop remind me 9:30 AM ET Opening Bell remind me 10:00 AM ET News Pop remind me 10:30 AM ET Headlines & Weather remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS sections: Most Popular U.S. World Politics Health Entertainment Tech Travel Money Brian Ross Investigates The Assets: Meet the Real People Digital Reports Digital Originals Extreme Video ABC News Audio Home > Video > Most Popular Lane Closures at the George Washington Bridge and Chris Christie's Apology Lane Closures at the George Washington Bridge and Chris Christie's Apology NJ governor adamantly denies involvement; class action law suit announced today. The 'Other' Malalas The 'Other' Malalas Many other unsung heroes fight for human rights in Pakistan. 2 Already Dead From Flu Strain 2 Already Dead From Flu Strain Dr. Richard Besser discusses deaths related to what is believed to be the H1N1 virus. Teen Accuses Popular High School Senior of Rape Teen Accuses Popular High School Senior of Rape Act 3: In Maryville, Mo., Daisy Coleman and her friend claim they were sexually assaulted. Passenger Films as Plane Crashes Into Ocean Passenger Films as Plane Crashes Into Ocean Eight of the 9 people on board survived the small plane crash off the coast of Hawaii in December. Sperm Switch: Biological Dad Is Convicted Felon Sperm Switch: Biological Dad Is Convicted Felon Genetic testing links adult daughter to a convicted kidnapper who used to work at a Utah fertility clinic. Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis The 29-year-old woman who had no known medical conditions had not gotten a flu shot. America's New It Girl, Mindy Kaling Graces the Cover of Elle America's New It Girl, Mindy Kaling Graces the Cover of Elle With only her stunning face, some critics say it isn't enough of her on the cover. Passenger Films Hawaiian Plane Crash from Inside Cabin Passenger Films Hawaiian Plane Crash from Inside Cabin Ferdinand Puentes captured the moment of impact and evacuation of Dec. plane crash that killed one. California Hospital Sets Up Tent to Prepare for Flu California Hospital Sets Up Tent to Prepare for Flu Regional Medical Center in San Jose separates suspected flu patients to contain the spread of the virus. Number of States with High Flu Activity Triples Number of States with High Flu Activity Triples Dr. Richard Besser discusses how the flu is on the rise in much of the country. Drunk Teen Killed After Home Invasion Drunk Teen Killed After Home Invasion Act 1: Caleb Gordley was shot and killed after a night of drinking when he entered the wrong home. 2,000-Year-Old Human Remains Found at Construction Site 2,000-Year-Old Human Remains Found at Construction Site Archaeologists unearth woman's bones discovered by crews doing road work in Davie, Fla. NYC Mayor's Pizza Eating Scrutinized NYC Mayor's Pizza Eating Scrutinized Bill de Blasio defends his use of a knife and fork. Deadly Flu Strain H1N1 is Going Into High Gear Deadly Flu Strain H1N1 is Going Into High Gear Dr. Richard Besser with ways to protect yourself and your family from the flu. 1 of 2 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
