Taylor Swift Vs. Kelly Clarkson | Video - ABC News
 Now Satan Statue Design • Miss Venezuela • Velveeta Shortage • Last DC-9 • Bigfoot Hunter • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Taylor Swift Vs. Kelly Clarkson Swift's Grammy performance sparks a war of words between the singers' camps. 01:31 | 02/05/2010 Related Links: Watch: Did Wynonna Diss Taylor Swift? Watch: Taylor Swift's Kanye Song Watch: Kanye West's Swift Outburst Share: Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 9:00 AM ET GMA Live remind me 9:15 AM ET News Pop remind me 9:30 AM ET Opening Bell remind me 10:00 AM ET News Pop remind me 10:30 AM ET Headlines & Weather remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS sections: Most Popular U.S. World Politics Health Entertainment Tech Travel Money Brian Ross Investigates The Assets: Meet the Real People Digital Reports Digital Originals Extreme Video ABC News Audio Home > Video > Most Popular Outrage Over Alleged Fraudulent Disability Claims That Stem From 9/11 Tragedy Outrage Over Alleged Fraudulent Disability Claims That Stem From 9/11 Tragedy More than 100 New York City retired firefighters and police officers charged with fraud. NYC Workers to Be Charged for Alleged 9/11 Disability Fraud NYC Workers to Be Charged for Alleged 9/11 Disability Fraud Retired police and firefighters are accused of lying about disabilities stemming from 9/11. McDonald's CEO Faces 9-Year-Old's Criticism McDonald's CEO Faces 9-Year-Old's Criticism Girl from British Columbia attends shareholders meeting with mom, confronts the fast food CEO. NYC Cops, Firefighters Charged in 9/11 Disability Fraud NYC Cops, Firefighters Charged in 9/11 Disability Fraud More than 100 retired workers are accused of faking work-related stress to collect benefits. Disability Scams Costing Taxpayers Disability Scams Costing Taxpayers Was extreme athlete also California city worker collecting disability payments? 'Duck Dynasty': Inside the Kingdom of Redneck Royalty 'Duck Dynasty': Inside the Kingdom of Redneck Royalty The Robertsons created a duck call empire and now their lives are a hit reality show. Hasselbeck: Satan Exists Hasselbeck: Satan Exists "View" co-host believes the devil is an actual force responsible for evil. Special Prosecutor Appointed to Reopen Rape Case Special Prosecutor Appointed to Reopen Rape Case Missouri teen claims she was sexually assaulted by a football star, but the charges were dropped. Passengers Stuck on Amtrak Train for More Than 12 Hours Passengers Stuck on Amtrak Train for More Than 12 Hours About 500 were stranded in rural Illinois after the train became stranded in snow drifts. Girl, 3, Brain Dead After Root Canal Surgery Girl, 3, Brain Dead After Root Canal Surgery A lawsuit has been filed against the dental practice where Finely Boyle went into cardiac arrest. Baby Born Brain Dead Dies, Family Blames Forceps Baby Born Brain Dead Dies, Family Blames Forceps Texas family says Olivia Maria Coats' skull was fractured during her birth. Polar Vortex Freezes Parts of US Polar Vortex Freezes Parts of US About 187 million Americans are hit with record-low temperatures. Brain-Dead Teen's Family Preparing for the Worst Brain-Dead Teen's Family Preparing for the Worst Jahi McMath was transferred to an undisclosed facility that agreed to keep her on life support. Special Prosecutor Requested in Missouri Teen Rape Case Special Prosecutor Requested in Missouri Teen Rape Case Prosecutor Robert Rice has asked for an independent review into the alleged rape of Daisy Coleman. Missouri Family Seeks Justice After Alleged Rape Missouri Family Seeks Justice After Alleged Rape Daisy Coleman says she was the victim of bullying after being raped by a classmate at age 14. 1 of 2 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
