'View' Laughs at Supreme Court Gay Talk | Video - ABC News
 Now Texting Shooting • Octomom Fraud • Kanye West • Evan Ross and Ashlee Simpson • Maddy McCann • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live 'View' Laughs at Supreme Court Gay Talk The women dismiss rumors that high-court nominee Elena Kagan is a lesbian. 03:42 | 05/12/2010 Related Links: Watch: Kagan's Personal Life Under Microscope Watch: Kagan Meets With Senate Majority Leader Watch: Key Sen. Challenges Supreme Court Pick Share: Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 9:15 AM ET News Pop remind me 9:30 AM ET Opening Bell remind me 10:00 AM ET News Pop remind me 10:30 AM ET Headlines & Weather remind me 10:45 AM ET ESPN on ABC News remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS sections: Most Popular U.S. World Politics Health Entertainment Tech Travel Money Brian Ross Investigates The Assets: Meet the Real People Digital Reports Digital Originals Extreme Video ABC News Audio Home > Video > Most Popular Dispute in Movie Theater Ends in Fatal Shooting Dispute in Movie Theater Ends in Fatal Shooting Florida authorities arrest man suspected in shooting a couple over cell phone use. Two People Shot at Florida Movie Theater Two People Shot at Florida Movie Theater Man suspected in the shooting at a Tampa Bay area theater is in custody. Brawl Erupts Outside Florida Movie Theater Brawl Erupts Outside Florida Movie Theater Police say 600-person melee in parking lot started after a group tried to storm the theater without tickets. James Holmes Trial Could Last Months James Holmes Trial Could Last Months Colorado judge says jury selection could take three months and the trial could last five months. Passenger Films Hawaiian Plane Crash from Inside Cabin Passenger Films Hawaiian Plane Crash from Inside Cabin Ferdinand Puentes captured the moment of impact and evacuation of Dec. plane crash that killed one. Texting Allegedly Triggers Movie Theater Shooting by Retired Police Captain Texting Allegedly Triggers Movie Theater Shooting by Retired Police Captain Chad Oulson was on a date with his wife, and wanted to send a text message to their young daughter. Madeleine McCann Case: 3 Alleged Burglars to Be Interviewed Madeleine McCann Case: 3 Alleged Burglars to Be Interviewed Detectives reportedly asked Portuguese authorities to find three suspects in girl's disappearance. Maddy McCann Mystery: Police Release Images of Possible Kidnap Suspect Maddy McCann Mystery: Police Release Images of Possible Kidnap Suspect Scotland Yard is still searching for leads in the 2007 disappearance of a little girl in Portugal. 1 Dead, 1 Missing After Fall Into River to Retrieve Phone 1 Dead, 1 Missing After Fall Into River to Retrieve Phone One of the victims tried to retrieve a cell phone from the icy waters, two others tried to rescue him. 'American Hustle,' Golden Globe Hosts Rule the Night 'American Hustle,' Golden Globe Hosts Rule the Night Jennifer Lawrence and Amy Adams walked away with wins for their performances. Jacqueline Bissett's Awkward Golden Globes Speech Jacqueline Bissett's Awkward Golden Globes Speech The winner for Best Supporting Actress in a TV Show was bleeped by censors. After 2 Feet of Snow, Chicago Sees Coldest Temps in 30 Years After 2 Feet of Snow, Chicago Sees Coldest Temps in 30 Years Sub-zero temperatures strike as Chicago residents dig out from major snow storm. Golden Globes Shine With Hosts' Opening Golden Globes Shine With Hosts' Opening Tina Fey and Amy Poehler delivered plenty of laughs for a second year in a row. Washington Man a Double Lottery Winner Washington Man a Double Lottery Winner Cary Collings won a second lottery jackpot on his way to cash in his first prize. Southwest Jet Lands in Right State, Wrong Airport Southwest Jet Lands in Right State, Wrong Airport A flight bound for Branson landed at another Missouri airport seven miles away. 1 of 2 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
