The good old days - Megan McArdle - The Atlantic
     Continue to the TheAtlantic.com Advertisement The Atlantic Subscribe Now Follow Us Politics Top Stories Why We're Marching Across N.H. to Honor Aaron Swartz Why Do the Poor and Minorities Vote Less? How the NSA Would Defend Chris Christie The Myth of the Anti-Government Constitution Why 'Let Them Smoke Pot' Is Not an Economic Strategy for Millennials How to Solve America's Democracy and Poverty Crisis Business Top Stories If You Really Care About Ending Poverty, Stop Talking About Inequality Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Why America's Doctor Shortage Might Mean Trouble for Obamacare The Financial Benefits of Being Beautiful Everything You Need to Know About the Healthcare Slowdown The Company That Botched Obamacare's Website Is Getting Replaced Tech Top Stories Court Rules That Yelp Must Unmask the Identities of Seven Anonymous Reviewers With Great Computing Power Comes Great Surveillance The Time I Got Stranded in Antarctica Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition The Elegance of Beowulf in 100 Tweets The Glorious Feeling of Fixing Something Yourself Entertainment Top Stories Cam Newton Could Become a Legend—If He Wins Now Lone Survivor: Every War Movie is a Pro-War Movie Marian Bantjes, the Michelangelo of Decorative Lettering Accordions: So Hot Right Now Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? How Masterpiece Stays Timeless Health Top Stories Impact Factor and the Future of Medical Journals A Lesser-Known Dementia That Steals Personality Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less Education Top Stories Tech's Gender and Race Gap Starts in High School How to Discipline Students Without Turning School Into a Prison 'You Have to Know History to Actually Teach It' When Computers Are Co-Teachers Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain What's Ahead for Education in 2014 Sexes Top Stories Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should The Rise and Fall—and Rise—of Facial Hair The U.S. Economy Does Not Value Caregivers How People in Muslim Countries Think Women Should Dress The Poverty Line Was Designed Assuming Every Family Had a Housewife Who Was a 'Skillful Cook' Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? National Top Stories The Black Students Who Wouldn't Leave the Lunch Counter The Appalling Story of South Carolina's Prisons Executed Against the Jury's Judgment Robert Pastor When a Boy You Know Goes Missing 'The Most Expensive Sheriff in America' Is Getting More Expensive Special Report: A User's Guide to 2014 Global Top Stories Ariel Sharon's Legacy of Separation Retracing Mao Zedong's Long March—by Motorcycle Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries What Is a 'Class-A War Criminal'? More on the Yasukuni Controversy. Iceland's Newest Beer Ingredient: Whale How People in Muslim Countries Think Women Should Dress Video Top Stories Sierra Leone's Fight for Gender Equality Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone 'The Mean Dean Drumming Machine' The Life of a Los Angeles Homicide Detective Zen and the Art of Woodworking Inside a Workshop for Custom-Built Motorcycles Magazine In This Month's Issue Surviving Anxiety Daddy Track: The Case for Paternity Leave Jesse Willms, the Dark Lord of the Internet The Elmore Leonard Paradox A Brief History of the Mile High Club Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Editions Subscribe Newsletters Books Apps Longreads In Focus Events Just In The Myth of the Anti-Government Constitution Why Handsome CEOs Get Paid More By Derek Thompson What Makes a Good History Teacher? By David Cutler Unmasking Anonymous Yelp Reviewers By Rebecca J. Rosen Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less The good old days Megan McArdle Aug 29 2007, 5:58 PM ET Tweet More Email Print Brad DeLong is absolutely stunning when he writes about economic history: A quarter of American households in 1900 had boarders or lodgers (compared to two percent today). Half of American households in 1900 had fewer rooms than persons (compared to five percent today). A quarter of American households in 1900 had running water (compared to ninety-nine percent today). An eighth of American households in 1900 had flush toilets (compared to ninety-eight percent today). Less than a fifth had refrigerators, less than one-twelfth had gas or electric lights, less than one-twentieth had telephones or washing machines, and of course there were no radios or televisions or vacuum cleaners or central heating, to list just those major appliances that have greater than ninety percent coverage today. And even if you did have a four room house, could you afford to heat more than one room of it? Many Homestead four-room houses became two-room houses--the kitchen and the bedroom--in the depths of the western Pennsylvania winter. The diets of workers in Homestead, Pennsylvania at the turn of the century were composed primarily of meat of widely variable quality, bread, butter, potatoes, oatmeal, and tea and milk–with luxuries such as sweets added in more or less regularly. We would find the diet somewhat monotonous (however, a lot of time and effort went into Þnding different ways to make potatoes). Almost always the first luxury that a working-class family moving up would purchase would be the services of a laundress: since laundry was expensive and difficult, few working-class families could maintain upper-middle-class standards of cleanliness. How often would you take baths if the water had to brought in from an outside pump, and then heated on the stove? How often would you wash your clothes if everything had to be washed out in the sink, if the fabrics were three times as heavy and the detergents one-third as powerful as the ones available today, and if as a result the laundry was a full day’s chore? Hand laundry was not a two hour a week task. Those who could afford the resources to maintain bourgeois styles of cleanliness flaunted it. White shirts, white dresses, white gloves are all powerful indications of wealth in turn of the century America. They said "I don't have to do my own laundry and ," and they said it loudly. As a rule married women did not work outside the home–unless they were African-American, in which case they might well do their own family’s housework and be paid for doing a share of some white family’s housework as well. Meal preparation was not a one-hour-a-day but a four-hour-a-day task. Barring a shift toward larger-scale communal or cooperative living–a shift which simply did not happen even though anticipated, hoped for, and worked for by many feminists–within-the-household production and maintenance soaked up one-third the potential adult work hours. It made it next to impossible for married women (unless they were quite rich, or quite poor) to have independent careers and still fulfill the social expectations of household maintenance. Infant mortality at the turn of the century was high. One in five babies in Homestead, Pennsylvania died before reaching his or her Þrst birthday. Adult men died, too, like flies (and adult women faced substantial risks in childbirth). Accident rates in the factory were such as to leave 260 injured per year–30 dead–out of a total population of 25,000 and a steel mill working population of 5,000. Each year, five percent were injured enough to miss work for some time (although only one percent per year were permanently disabled), and 1/2 percent per year were killed in factory accidents. You can do the math. Start to work for U.S. Steel when you are 20. There is one chance in seven that the factory will kill you before you reach 50, and almost one chance in three that the factory will disable you. Is it any wonder that life insurance–disability insurance--group lodges that provide benefits (because the company provides few)--loom so large in American working class consciousness at the turn of the century? And is it any wonder that the Þrst component of the welfare state put into place, in many parts of the United States, was workmen’s compensation? Of course, in 1910 Homestead (or in 1930 Detroit, or in Los Angeles today) the most arduous and difficult jobs were done by minorities and immigrants: in 1910 Homestead by Slavs, in 1930 Detroit by Blacks, and in 2000 Los Angeles by Hispanics. At the micro level, such groups are concentrated in the most arduous and lowest-paid jobs because they are poor, because they have limited other options. Most of the Homestead workforce only worked six days a week: for four out of five workers, the mill was shut on Sundays. U.S. Steel viewed this--shutting most of the mill on Sundays–as a major concession on their part, a concession that they hoped would produce large public relations benefits. From U.S. Steel’s perspective, each hour that a modern plant like Homestead stood idle was tremendously expensive. Variable costs--wages, raw materials, and transportation--made up perhaps 2/3 of total costs. The remainder were fixed: capital costs on the construction of the plant, and maintenance that had to be performed whether the plant was operating intensively or not. Were U.S. Steel to move from two 12-hour shifts a day to one 12-hour shift, its output would be halved but its costs would be reduced by only 1/3, so total costs per ton of steel made would rise by 1/3. This was not a margin that U.S. Steel could afford. As long as it could Þnd workers willing to work the night shift, the Homestead mill (depressions and recessions apart) stayed open 24 hours a day on weekdays. And when things did change, they changed all at once-from two 12-hour shifts before and during World War I, to two 8-hour shifts (or three 8-hour shifts) during the 1920s, and during and after World War II. Yet Homestead jobs--at least Homestead jobs taken by native-born Americans--were good jobs by the standards of the United States. As historian Ray Ginger put it: their expectations were not ours. A man who grew up on a Southern farm did not think it cruel that his sons had to work as bobbin boys [collecting spun thread in a textile mill]. An immigrant living in a tenement and working in a sweatshop yet knew that for the Þrst time in his life he was wearing shoes seven days a week... And Homestead, Pennsylvania jobs paid well both by the standards of the United States and much more so by the standards of the world economy of the time. White households could make around $900 (of 1910 value) a year, placing them well the upper third of the U.S. population in terms of income per household in 1910. Relative to what could be earned by people of similar skill levels anywhere else in the world, a job in the Homestead mill was a very attractive job. Even the unequal America at the turn of the century was a very attractive place compared to the rest of the world. America was exceptional. In spite of the hours, in spite of the risk of death or injury, in spite of the working conditions, these were very good jobs by international standards: jobs worth moving 7,000 miles for, from Hungary or Lithuania to suburban Pittsburgh. For the economy of the late nineteeth century was for the first time in human history a truly global economy, filled with long-distance trade and migration, so people could take advantage of the opportunities opened up by industrialization. Jump to comments Tweet Email Print Presented by Megan McArdle is a former writer and editor at  The Atlantic. All Posts RSS Follow @asymmetricinfo Try 2 Free Issues! Go Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Edition Get Today's Top Stories in Your Inbox (preview) Email Address How to Solve America's Democracy and Poverty Crisis Daniel Weeks Jan 10, 2014 A PR Plan for Chris Christie, Courtesy of the NSA Playbook Conor Friedersdorf Jan 10, 2014 Beowulf the Epic Poem in 100 Tweets Alexis C. Madrigal Jan 10, 2014 'Let Them Smoke Pot' Is Not an Economic Strategy for Millennials Ronald Brownstein Jan 10, 2014 Video More Video The Life of a Los Angeles Homicide Detective Tweet Ariel Sharon's Legacy of Separation The Many Financial Benefits of Being Beautiful What Prison Officials in South Carolina Did to Mentally Ill Inmates The Joy of Fixing Something Yourself ‹ › Elsewhere on the web Sponsored Links Join the Discussion After you comment, click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register. blog comments powered by Disqus Close In-Depth How Netflix Works It seems to know you, but how? Video The NeverEnding Sorry Highlights from late-night comedy Writers Up James Fallows What Is a 'Class-A War Criminal'? More on the Yasukuni Controversy. 12:46 PM ET Derek Thompson The Financial Benefits of Being Beautiful 9:31 AM ET Matthew O'Brien Everything You Need to Know About the Healthcare Slowdown Jan 10, 2014 James Hamblin Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition Jan 10, 2014 Eleanor Barkhorn Tech's Gender and Race Gap Starts in High School Jan 10, 2014 Andrew Cohen The Black Students Who Wouldn't Leave the Lunch Counter Jan 10, 2014 Jordan Weissmann The Company That Botched Obamacare's Website Is Getting Replaced Jan 10, 2014 Alexis C. Madrigal The Elegance of Beowulf in 100 Tweets Jan 10, 2014 Olga Khazan Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should Jan 10, 2014 Julie Beck Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries Jan 10, 2014 Rebecca J. Rosen Court Rules That Yelp Must Unmask the Identities of Seven Anonymous Reviewers Jan 10, 2014 Megan Garber Oh, Deer: NASA Rocket Gets Photobombed by Hungry Animals Jan 10, 2014 Conor Friedersdorf How NSA Apologists Exploit State Secrets Jan 10, 2014 David A. Graham Why Bridgegate Is So Dangerous to Chris Christie's Reputation Jan 9, 2014 Ta-Nehisi Coates Addendum to the Great Public-Intellectual Debate Jan 9, 2014 Robinson Meyer Notice That Flicker? Europe's Lights Are Out-of-Tune With Your Phone Jan 8, 2014 Emma Green How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl Jan 7, 2014 Molly Ball The Agony of Frank Luntz Jan 6, 2014 Matt Schiavenza Legalizing Marijuana Does Not Mean the U.S. Would Lose Ground to China Jan 5, 2014 Sam Price-Waldman Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone Jan 3, 2014 Steve Clemons China's Latest Food Scandal: Fox-Tainted Donkey Meat Jan 2, 2014 Kasia Cieplak-Mayr von Baldegg The Most Powerful Images of 2013 Dec 28, 2013 Katherine Wells The Other Darwin Dec 28, 2013 Ashley Fetters The Exhausting Emotional Violence of August: Osage County Dec 25, 2013 Down More in Business If You Really Care About Ending Poverty, Stop Talking About Inequality W. Bradford Wilcox Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Matthew O'Brien Why America's Doctor Shortage Might Mean Trouble for Obamacare Matthew O'Brien In Focus The Continued Eruptions of Mount Sinabung Most Popular 1 The Financial Benefits of Being Beautiful 2 'You Have to Know History to Actually Teach It' 3 When Good People Do Nothing: The Appalling Story of South Carolina's Prisons 4 The Myth of the Anti-Government Constitution 5 This Is Your Brain on Gluten 6 Surviving Anxiety 7 The Agony of Frank Luntz 8 The Broken Lives of Fukushima 9 How Netflix Reverse Engineered Hollywood 10 World War II: After the War Just In The Myth of the Anti-Government Constitution Peter M. Shane What Is a 'Class-A War Criminal'? More on the Yasukuni Controversy. James Fallows The Financial Benefits of Being Beautiful Derek Thompson ATLANTIC MEDIA The Wire Virginia Woman Must Return Renoir Painting She Bought at a Flea Market for $7 There Was a Massive Brawl in Turkish Parliament Today Alex Rodriguez's Mega-Suspension Gets Cut Down to One Season More from The Wire Atlantic Cities At This 'Anti-Cafe,' You Pay Just to Sit Around The L.A. Public Library Is About to Start Offering High School Diplomas This Chart Explains Why the Nation Is Riveted By the Chris Christie Scandal More from Atlantic Cities Quartz Technology has moved into every room of the house—except the bathroom Bots have made the world’s largest annual human migration much more expensive Inside Jeff Zucker’s plan to save CNN More from Quartz National Journal Congress Prodded on Offshore-Drilling Safety Supreme Court Takes Up Another Obamacare-Related Case Here's a Congressman's Pitch for a Portlandia Sketch More from National Journal Longreads Top 5 Longreads of the Week ‘I’m One of the Others Now’: What Life Was Like for a Family in East Germany How One Magazine Shaped Investigative Journalism in America More from Longreads Follow The Atlantic App store Facebook Twitter Linkedin Google Plus Tumblr RSS E-Newsletters Today's Top Stories This Week This Month New at In Focus Atlantic Cities 5 Best Columns Today's News Information FAQ Subscribe Help Masthead Store Emporium Jobs Privacy Site Map Terms and Conditions Advertise Advertising Guidelines Press Contact Us Special Reports Atlantic Scene Ebook Events Atlantic Media Subscribe Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price STATE AK AL AR AZ CA CO CT DC DE FL GA HI IA ID IL IN KS KY LA MA MD ME MI MN MO MS MT NC ND NE NH NJ NM NV NY OH OK OR PA RI SC SD TN TX UT VA VT WA WI WV WY YT Next ► Fraud alert regarding The Atlantic Copyright © 2014 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. CDN powered by Edgecast Networks. Insights powered by Parsely . Powered by the Parse.ly Publisher Platform (P3). 
