Counting the instruments - Clive Crook - The Atlantic
     Continue to the TheAtlantic.com Advertisement The Atlantic Subscribe Now Follow Us Politics Top Stories Why We're Marching Across N.H. to Honor Aaron Swartz Why Do the Poor and Minorities Vote Less? How the NSA Would Defend Chris Christie The Myth of the Anti-Government Constitution Why 'Let Them Smoke Pot' Is Not an Economic Strategy for Millennials How to Solve America's Democracy and Poverty Crisis Business Top Stories If You Really Care About Ending Poverty, Stop Talking About Inequality Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Why America's Doctor Shortage Might Mean Trouble for Obamacare What America Won in the ‘War on Poverty’ The Financial Benefits of Being Beautiful Everything You Need to Know About the Healthcare Slowdown Tech Top Stories Court Rules That Yelp Must Unmask the Identities of Seven Anonymous Reviewers With Great Computing Power Comes Great Surveillance The Time I Got Stranded in Antarctica The Star That Could Be a Supernova Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition The Elegance of Beowulf in 100 Tweets Entertainment Top Stories Cam Newton Could Become a Legend—If He Wins Now Lone Survivor: Every War Movie is a Pro-War Movie Marian Bantjes, the Michelangelo of Decorative Lettering Naked Lena, Oscarless Leo: The Week's Best Pop-Culture Writing Accordions: So Hot Right Now Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? Health Top Stories Impact Factor and the Future of Medical Journals A Lesser-Known Dementia That Steals Personality Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less Education Top Stories Tech's Gender and Race Gap Starts in High School How to Discipline Students Without Turning School Into a Prison 'You Have to Know History to Actually Teach It' When Computers Are Co-Teachers Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain What's Ahead for Education in 2014 Sexes Top Stories Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should The Rise and Fall—and Rise—of Facial Hair The U.S. Economy Does Not Value Caregivers How People in Muslim Countries Think Women Should Dress The Poverty Line Was Designed Assuming Every Family Had a Housewife Who Was a 'Skillful Cook' Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? National Top Stories The Black Students Who Wouldn't Leave the Lunch Counter The Appalling Story of South Carolina's Prisons Executed Against the Jury's Judgment Robert Pastor When a Boy You Know Goes Missing 'The Most Expensive Sheriff in America' Is Getting More Expensive Special Report: A User's Guide to 2014 Global Top Stories Ariel Sharon's Legacy of Separation Retracing Mao Zedong's Long March—by Motorcycle Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries What Is a 'Class-A War Criminal'? More on the Yasukuni Controversy. Iceland's Newest Beer Ingredient: Whale How People in Muslim Countries Think Women Should Dress Video Top Stories Sierra Leone's Fight for Gender Equality Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone 'The Mean Dean Drumming Machine' The Life of a Los Angeles Homicide Detective Zen and the Art of Woodworking Inside a Workshop for Custom-Built Motorcycles Magazine In This Month's Issue Surviving Anxiety Daddy Track: The Case for Paternity Leave Jesse Willms, the Dark Lord of the Internet The Elmore Leonard Paradox A Brief History of the Mile High Club Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Editions Subscribe Newsletters Books Apps Longreads In Focus Events Just In What America Won in the ‘War on Poverty’ Why Handsome CEOs Get Paid More By Derek Thompson What Makes a Good History Teacher? By David Cutler Unmasking Anonymous Yelp Reviewers By Rebecca J. Rosen Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less Counting the instruments Clive Crook Dec 13 2007, 5:24 PM ET Tweet More Email Print If you are following monetary policy in these testing times, and especially if you find recent Fed actions (and the markets' reaction to them) puzzling, two posts by James Hamilton at Econbrowser will help. Not that they clear things up, so much. But they make being puzzled an easier position to defend. First, James ponders the "surprise" cut of only 25 basis point in the fed funds rate. Was Wall Street really expecting a 50-basis-point cut? Looking at fed funds futures or options, you might have thought this was a significant possibility. For example, the graph below is the interest rate implied by the January fed funds futures contract, which historically has proven to be an excellent predictor of the monthly average fed funds rate. This had been trading at 4.18% prior to the meeting. Since the FOMC is not scheduled to meet again until January 29/30, one might have read this as implying a 30% chance of having seen a 50-basis-point cut from yesterday's meeting: (0.7)(4.25) + (0.3)(4.0) = 4.18 Implied interest rate on January 30-day fed funds futures contract.  Data source: TFC. But here's the curious thing: as of this writing, the price of that contract still has not budged more than half a basis point from where it stood at the close of trading last Friday. Fed funds futures traders seem not to have been surprised in the least by the outcome of Tuesday's meeting. So why did the market drop? "Beats me," he concludes. James next looks at the Fed's new "term auction facility":    Evidently there are those who entertain the hope that the Fed could find two separate tools to achieve two separate ends. The first tool-- the traditional instrument of monetary policy-- is to adjust the total quantity of reserves available to the banking system so as to achieve a particular target value for the fed funds rate, the rate at which one bank lends to another overnight. When one describes a traditional monetary policy action as "providing liquidity," this is what we are discussing. But there appears to be a widespread belief that the Fed needs a second tool in order to achieve a second policy objective, which is somehow to eliminate the gridlock in financial institutions resulting from huge holdings of assets that no one seems willing to buy. Perhaps, the thinking seems to go, adjusting the spread between the discount rate and the fed funds rate could be a tool to accomplish this. I am inferring that the Fed itself may also have been musing along these lines, in that it today announced creation of a term auction facility. The basic idea is that the Fed will specify a certain maximum amount that it would like banks to borrow. It intends to lend up to $20 billion for a 28-day term on Monday, and lend up to an additional $20 billion for a 35-day period on December 20. Potential borrowers will bid an interest rate to receive this loan, with I presume each $20 billion going to the highest bidders. Banks must also provide collateral for these loans. The objective is clearly not just to get $40 billion more in reserves into the banking system next week-- an open market operation could accomplish that just fine. The objective must be to get the reserves into the hands of those particular banks that want them most... The other thing the facility accomplishes is allow the Fed to accept lower-quality collateral from borrowers than its rules require for open market operations conducted through repurchase agreements. If there is an effect of the facility, I would think that this would be the mechanism. What may matter is not the reserves put in the system, nor who gets those reserves, but the troublesome assets temporarily taken off some institutions' balance sheets. Isn't that a "bail-out"? The Fed's initiative was announced in concert with other big central banks, which also took steps to boost liquidity. As the FT reported, however, short-term interest rates hardly budged. The markets don't yet know what to make of it all. Jump to comments Tweet Email Print Presented by Clive Crook is a senior editor of The Atlantic and a columnist for Bloomberg View. He was the Washington columnist for the Financial Times, and before that worked at The Economist for more than 20 years, including 11 years as deputy editor. Crook writes about the intersection of politics and economics. More Crook writes about the intersection of politics and economics. All Posts RSS Follow @clive_crook Try 2 Free Issues! Go Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Edition Get Today's Top Stories in Your Inbox (preview) Email Address Beowulf the Epic Poem in 100 Tweets Alexis C. Madrigal Jan 10, 2014 The 3 Weirdest Things About the Weirdest Jobs Report Ever Derek Thompson Jan 10, 2014 How the 'Housewife' Prevents Poverty, According to the Government Jordan Weissmann Jan 8, 2014 Marching Across New Hampshire to Honor Aaron Swartz Lawrence Lessig Jan 10, 2014 Video More Video The Life of a Los Angeles Homicide Detective Tweet The Myth of the Anti-Government Constitution The Many Financial Benefits of Being Beautiful Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should Ariel Sharon's Legacy of Separation ‹ › Elsewhere on the web Sponsored Links Join the Discussion After you comment, click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register. blog comments powered by Disqus Close Brooklyn The Rise and Fall—and Rise—of Facial Hair Hey, it was good enough for Abraham Lincoln. In-Depth How Netflix Works It seems to know you, but how? Writers Up Rebecca J. Rosen The Star That Could Be a Supernova Jan 11, 2014 James Fallows What Is a 'Class-A War Criminal'? More on the Yasukuni Controversy. Jan 11, 2014 Derek Thompson The Financial Benefits of Being Beautiful Jan 11, 2014 Matthew O'Brien Everything You Need to Know About the Healthcare Slowdown Jan 10, 2014 James Hamblin Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition Jan 10, 2014 Eleanor Barkhorn Tech's Gender and Race Gap Starts in High School Jan 10, 2014 Andrew Cohen The Black Students Who Wouldn't Leave the Lunch Counter Jan 10, 2014 Jordan Weissmann The Company That Botched Obamacare's Website Is Getting Replaced Jan 10, 2014 Alexis C. Madrigal The Elegance of Beowulf in 100 Tweets Jan 10, 2014 Olga Khazan Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should Jan 10, 2014 Julie Beck Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries Jan 10, 2014 Megan Garber Oh, Deer: NASA Rocket Gets Photobombed by Hungry Animals Jan 10, 2014 Conor Friedersdorf How NSA Apologists Exploit State Secrets Jan 10, 2014 David A. Graham Why Bridgegate Is So Dangerous to Chris Christie's Reputation Jan 9, 2014 Ta-Nehisi Coates Addendum to the Great Public-Intellectual Debate Jan 9, 2014 Robinson Meyer Notice That Flicker? Europe's Lights Are Out-of-Tune With Your Phone Jan 8, 2014 Emma Green How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl Jan 7, 2014 Molly Ball The Agony of Frank Luntz Jan 6, 2014 Matt Schiavenza Legalizing Marijuana Does Not Mean the U.S. Would Lose Ground to China Jan 5, 2014 Sam Price-Waldman Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone Jan 3, 2014 Steve Clemons China's Latest Food Scandal: Fox-Tainted Donkey Meat Jan 2, 2014 Kasia Cieplak-Mayr von Baldegg The Most Powerful Images of 2013 Dec 28, 2013 Katherine Wells The Other Darwin Dec 28, 2013 Ashley Fetters The Exhausting Emotional Violence of August: Osage County Dec 25, 2013 Down More in Business If You Really Care About Ending Poverty, Stop Talking About Inequality W. Bradford Wilcox Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Matthew O'Brien Why America's Doctor Shortage Might Mean Trouble for Obamacare Matthew O'Brien In Focus The Continued Eruptions of Mount Sinabung Most Popular 1 'You Have to Know History to Actually Teach It' 2 The Myth of the Anti-Government Constitution 3 The Financial Benefits of Being Beautiful 4 This Is Your Brain on Gluten 5 How Netflix Reverse Engineered Hollywood 6 World War II: After the War 7 Surviving Anxiety 8 The Star That Could Be a Supernova 9 Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should 10 A Sea Story Just In What America Won in the ‘War on Poverty’ Zachary Karabell Naked Lena, Oscarless Leo: The Week's Best Pop-Culture Writing Nolan Feeney, Ashley Fetters, Spencer Kornhaber The Star That Could Be a Supernova Rebecca J. Rosen ATLANTIC MEDIA The Wire Philly's 'Swiss Cheese Masturbator' Highlights City's Troubled History With Swiss Cheese Virginia Woman Must Return Renoir Painting She Bought at a Flea Market for $7 There Was a Massive Brawl in Turkish Parliament Today More from The Wire Atlantic Cities San Diego's Racial Profiling Crisis: Best #Cityreads of the Week At This 'Anti-Cafe,' You Pay Just to Sit Around The L.A. Public Library Is About to Start Offering High School Diplomas More from Atlantic Cities Quartz Petro-states are threatening their rebel regions with lawsuits and gunshots Technology has moved into every room of the house—except the bathroom Bots have made the world’s largest annual human migration much more expensive More from Quartz National Journal Congress Prodded on Offshore-Drilling Safety Supreme Court Takes Up Another Obamacare-Related Case Here's a Congressman's Pitch for a Portlandia Sketch More from National Journal Longreads Top 5 Longreads of the Week ‘I’m One of the Others Now’: What Life Was Like for a Family in East Germany How One Magazine Shaped Investigative Journalism in America More from Longreads Follow The Atlantic App store Facebook Twitter Linkedin Google Plus Tumblr RSS E-Newsletters Today's Top Stories This Week This Month New at In Focus Atlantic Cities 5 Best Columns Today's News Information FAQ Subscribe Help Masthead Store Emporium Jobs Privacy Site Map Terms and Conditions Advertise Advertising Guidelines Press Contact Us Special Reports Atlantic Scene Ebook Events Atlantic Media Subscribe Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price STATE AK AL AR AZ CA CO CT DC DE FL GA HI IA ID IL IN KS KY LA MA MD ME MI MN MO MS MT NC ND NE NH NJ NM NV NY OH OK OR PA RI SC SD TN TX UT VA VT WA WI WV WY YT Next ► Fraud alert regarding The Atlantic Copyright © 2014 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. CDN powered by Edgecast Networks. Insights powered by Parsely . Powered by the Parse.ly Publisher Platform (P3). 
