Rating agency follies: money market funds edition - Dr. Manhattan - The Atlantic
     Continue to the TheAtlantic.com Advertisement The Atlantic Subscribe Now Follow Us Politics Top Stories Why We're Marching Across N.H. to Honor Aaron Swartz Why Do the Poor and Minorities Vote Less? How the NSA Would Defend Chris Christie The Myth of the Anti-Government Constitution Why 'Let Them Smoke Pot' Is Not an Economic Strategy for Millennials How to Solve America's Democracy and Poverty Crisis Business Top Stories If You Really Care About Ending Poverty, Stop Talking About Inequality Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Why America's Doctor Shortage Might Mean Trouble for Obamacare What America Won in the ‘War on Poverty’ The Financial Benefits of Being Beautiful Everything You Need to Know About the Healthcare Slowdown Tech Top Stories Court Rules That Yelp Must Unmask the Identities of Seven Anonymous Reviewers With Great Computing Power Comes Great Surveillance The Time I Got Stranded in Antarctica What Niagara Falls Looks Like Without Water The Star That Could Be a Supernova Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition Entertainment Top Stories Cam Newton Could Become a Legend—If He Wins Now Lone Survivor: Every War Movie is a Pro-War Movie Marian Bantjes, the Michelangelo of Decorative Lettering Naked Lena, Oscarless Leo: The Week's Best Pop-Culture Writing Accordions: So Hot Right Now Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? Health Top Stories Impact Factor and the Future of Medical Journals A Lesser-Known Dementia That Steals Personality Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less Education Top Stories Tech's Gender and Race Gap Starts in High School How to Discipline Students Without Turning School Into a Prison 'You Have to Know History to Actually Teach It' When Computers Are Co-Teachers Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain What's Ahead for Education in 2014 Sexes Top Stories Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should The Rise and Fall—and Rise—of Facial Hair The U.S. Economy Does Not Value Caregivers How People in Muslim Countries Think Women Should Dress The Poverty Line Was Designed Assuming Every Family Had a Housewife Who Was a 'Skillful Cook' Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? National Top Stories The Black Students Who Wouldn't Leave the Lunch Counter The Appalling Story of South Carolina's Prisons Executed Against the Jury's Judgment Robert Pastor When a Boy You Know Goes Missing 'The Most Expensive Sheriff in America' Is Getting More Expensive Special Report: A User's Guide to 2014 Global Top Stories Ariel Sharon's Legacy of Separation Retracing Mao Zedong's Long March—by Motorcycle Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries What Is a 'Class-A War Criminal'? More on the Yasukuni Controversy. Iceland's Newest Beer Ingredient: Whale How People in Muslim Countries Think Women Should Dress Video Top Stories Sierra Leone's Fight for Gender Equality Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone 'The Mean Dean Drumming Machine' The Life of a Los Angeles Homicide Detective Zen and the Art of Woodworking Inside a Workshop for Custom-Built Motorcycles Magazine In This Month's Issue Surviving Anxiety Daddy Track: The Case for Paternity Leave Jesse Willms, the Dark Lord of the Internet The Elmore Leonard Paradox A Brief History of the Mile High Club Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Editions Subscribe Newsletters Books Apps Longreads In Focus Events Just In What Niagara Falls Looks Like Without Water Why Handsome CEOs Get Paid More By Derek Thompson What Makes a Good History Teacher? By David Cutler Unmasking Anonymous Yelp Reviewers By Rebecca J. Rosen Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less Rating agency follies: money market funds edition Dr. Manhattan Jan 29 2009, 1:17 PM ET Tweet More Email Print If anyone hasn't yet read Noah Millman's magnum opus on rating agencies and their pivotal role in creating our current economic crisis, then stop reading this right away and don't come back until you have.  It is one of the best explanations of how structured finance went awry and the rating agencies' role in the disaster.  As Millman notes: The ratings agencies have an enormous amount of power: pension funds and insurance companies invest according to their rules; under Basel II, bank capital ratios are substantially determined by how the agencies rate their portfolios of loans; and, of course, the entire "shadow banking system" created by providers of super-senior credit protection (monoline insurers, bank-sponsored asset-backed conduits, AIG Financial Products, etc) was only possible because of the ratings agencies. By 2006, the entire financial system was extraordinarily leveraged to the opinions of these government-blessed non-governmental independent agencies... Money market funds are another example of how deeply embedded the rating agencies are in the financial system.  Specifically, money market funds' portfolio investments are regulated - and quite heavily so - by Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940.  The rule's details are forbidding (even to practitioners), but for purposes of this post, the rule defines "Eligible Security" in which a money market fund may invest as, in part, short-term debt securities that have one of the two highest ratings from a major rating agency.  The rule does stipulate that money market funds need to exercise independent judgment as to a security's credit quality and can't rely solely on a rating, but - aside from providing a previously useful heuristic - the ratings from rating agencies provide the background against which credit quality is determined, and the rule contemplates as much.   You may have noticed that ratings on various forms of debt have been revised a few times over the last year and a half.  As such, money market funds have been in a similar position to many other financial institutions - figuring out how to deal with investments that were rated highly at the time but no longer.  Even before the Reserve Primary Fund "broke the buck" in the wake of Lehman's bankruptcy, the credit crisis had placed money market funds under unrelenting pressure to maintain the buck in the face of downgrades of their investments.  Many money market funds had substantial investments in "SIVs" and were vulnerable when that market collapsed in the fall of 2007.  Fund companies were able to provide enough support to their money market funds to avoid breaking the buck in those cases - an effort helped by the SEC working overtime to relax restrictions that would have limited fund companies' ability to lend such support (click here for an abbreviated list of examples).   Now that the horse is several states away from the barn, the SEC has proposed to remove the references to rating agencies from the rule - to basically pretend that ratings don't exist.  Actually, its not clear what exactly this rule change is meant to accomplish; on the one hand, the SEC points out that funds were never permitted to rely solely on ratings - but on the other, if funds are still permitted to consider ratings in evaluating the credit quality of securities (which is what a rating is supposed to do) and are still required to restrict their investments to those with credit qualities equivalent to highly-rated securities, then why bother changing the rule?  And without the heuristic provided by a top rating, operating companies will likely find it that much harder to place their commercial paper with money market funds, which will only hurt the economy far beyond the financial sector.  Couple that with the fact that the rule change appears to put a fund's board in the role of evaluating investment quality (which is NOT their job), and it's no surprise that the rule change has provoked a firestorm of criticism and is probably not going to get adopted too soon (yes, I assume the risk of looking foolish if the amendment gets adopted shortly).   But none of this means that the quality of ratings can be relied upon in the manner that prevailed prior to the credit crisis.  One of the best examples of how people thought about ratings can be found in n+1's "Interview with a Hedge Fund Manager" that occurred in January 2008: HFM: Well, a paradigm shift in finance is maybe what we've gone through in the sub-prime market and the spillover that's had in a lot of other markets where there were really basic assumptions that people made that, you know what?, they were wrong. The thing is that nobody has enough brain power to question every assumption, to think about every single facet of an investment. There are certain things you need to take for granted. And people would take for granted the idea that, "OK, something that Moody's rates triple-A must be money-good, so I'm going to worry about the other things I'm investing in, but when it comes time to say, 'Where am I going to put my cash?,' I'll just leave it in triple-A commercial paper, I don't have time to think about everything." It could be the case that, yeah, the power's going to fail in my office, and maybe the water supply is going to fail, and I should plan for that, but you only have so much brain power, so you think about what you think are the relevant factors, the factors that are likely to change. But often some of those assumptions that you make are wrong. n+1: So the Moody's ratings were like the water running... HFM: Exactly. Triple-A is triple-A. But there were people who made a ton of money in the sub-prime crisis because they looked at the collateral that underlay a lot of these CDOs [collateralized debt obligations] and commercial paper programs that were highly rated and they said, "Wait a second. What's underlying this are loans that have been made to people who really shouldn't own houses--they're not financially prepared to own houses. The underwriting standards are materially worse than they've been in previous years; the amount of construction that's going on in particular markets is just totally out of proportion with the sort of household formation that's going on; the rating agencies are kind of asleep at the switch, they're not changing their assumptions and therefore, OK, notwithstanding something may be rated triple-A, I can come up with what I think is a realistic scenario where those securities are impaired." And pricing on triple-A CDO paper was very, very rich. Spreads were very, very tight, and these guys said, "You know what? These assumptions that triple-A is money-good, or the assumptions that underlay Moody's ratings..." n+1: Money-good? HFM: In other words, if you buy a bond, you're going to get back your principle. It's money-good. You're going to get a hundred cents on the dollar back. But in reality this was wrong, and people were able to short triple-A securities very cheaply. They weren't paying a lot to be short and they made huge money on triple-A securities and triple-A CDO paper that now trades at fifty cents on the dollar. I mean that is like the water's not running today, right? The sun didn't rise. But if you were trained in finance, you probably are more likely to take for granted that, "The rating agencies have a very sound process, credit analysis, the same process that I've been trained in, all the assumptions that I use are kind of the same as the assumptions they use." Now, people know that ratings aren't something you can take for granted any longer, but nobody knows how to live without them.  Money market funds, for example, need the type of heuristics that ratings can provide in order to function in the pre-Reserve manner.  As Millman said:   The market is inevitably focused on a short time horizon, fickle and volatile by its very nature. We want major financial institutions - banks, insurers, etc. - to look beyond the market to longer term risk metrics. Without the agencies as an independent arbiter of what these might be, the market is all we have left. I don't know what the right answer is in terms of creating better rating agencies:  I think that the conflict of interest arising from the agencies getting paid by the issuers (which has attracted so much criticism)  is overblown as a causal explanation, if only because (as Millman also points out) if the rating agencies' fee depends on a deal getting done, their incentive will be to get the deal done regardless of whether the check comes from the deal's managers or investors.  And public agencies are just as susceptible to risk miscalculation, as we have seen in the current crisis.  But it is hard to see how the markets can recover until reliable ratings exist again. Jump to comments Tweet Email Print Presented by Dr. Manhattan Dr. Manhattan is the pseudonym of a lawyer in New York City who represents, among others, clients in the investment management industry. He started blogging in early 2002, when the entire NYC-based blogosphere could gather in one room (which they often did). In between his frequent retirements, he blogged about politics, baseball, Israel and autism (especially vaccine-related matters) at blissfulknowledge.com. With the regulatory system up for grabs, for this project he has decided to try the novel approach of blogging about matters which bear some relationship to the topics that come up in his day job (within the strict limits of professional obligations, of course). In case anyone was wondering, none of his opinions expressed on this blog are necessarily those of his clients, employer or colleagues. All Posts Email Try 2 Free Issues! Go Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Edition Get Today's Top Stories in Your Inbox (preview) Email Address Computers Make Great Assistant Teachers Margaret Ramirez Jan 10, 2014 The 3 Weirdest Things About the Weirdest Jobs Report Ever Derek Thompson Jan 10, 2014 Why Are Minorities and People in Poverty Less Likely to Vote? Daniel Weeks Jan 10, 2014 Unmasking Anonymous Yelp Reviewers Rebecca J. Rosen Jan 10, 2014 Video More Video The Life of a Los Angeles Homicide Detective Tweet What America Won in the ‘War on Poverty’ Ariel Sharon's Legacy of Separation The Myth of the Anti-Government Constitution When Niagara Falls Was Shut Off ‹ › Elsewhere on the web Sponsored Links Join the Discussion After you comment, click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register. blog comments powered by Disqus Close Brooklyn The Rise and Fall—and Rise—of Facial Hair Hey, it was good enough for Abraham Lincoln. In-Depth How Netflix Works It seems to know you, but how? Writers Up Alexis C. Madrigal What Niagara Falls Looks Like Without Water 11:00 AM ET Rebecca J. Rosen The Star That Could Be a Supernova Jan 11, 2014 James Fallows What Is a 'Class-A War Criminal'? More on the Yasukuni Controversy. Jan 11, 2014 Derek Thompson The Financial Benefits of Being Beautiful Jan 11, 2014 Matthew O'Brien Everything You Need to Know About the Healthcare Slowdown Jan 10, 2014 James Hamblin Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition Jan 10, 2014 Eleanor Barkhorn Tech's Gender and Race Gap Starts in High School Jan 10, 2014 Andrew Cohen The Black Students Who Wouldn't Leave the Lunch Counter Jan 10, 2014 Jordan Weissmann The Company That Botched Obamacare's Website Is Getting Replaced Jan 10, 2014 Olga Khazan Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should Jan 10, 2014 Julie Beck Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries Jan 10, 2014 Megan Garber Oh, Deer: NASA Rocket Gets Photobombed by Hungry Animals Jan 10, 2014 Conor Friedersdorf How NSA Apologists Exploit State Secrets Jan 10, 2014 David A. Graham Why Bridgegate Is So Dangerous to Chris Christie's Reputation Jan 9, 2014 Ta-Nehisi Coates Addendum to the Great Public-Intellectual Debate Jan 9, 2014 Robinson Meyer Notice That Flicker? Europe's Lights Are Out-of-Tune With Your Phone Jan 8, 2014 Emma Green How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl Jan 7, 2014 Molly Ball The Agony of Frank Luntz Jan 6, 2014 Matt Schiavenza Legalizing Marijuana Does Not Mean the U.S. Would Lose Ground to China Jan 5, 2014 Sam Price-Waldman Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone Jan 3, 2014 Steve Clemons China's Latest Food Scandal: Fox-Tainted Donkey Meat Jan 2, 2014 Kasia Cieplak-Mayr von Baldegg The Most Powerful Images of 2013 Dec 28, 2013 Katherine Wells The Other Darwin Dec 28, 2013 Ashley Fetters The Exhausting Emotional Violence of August: Osage County Dec 25, 2013 Down More in Business If You Really Care About Ending Poverty, Stop Talking About Inequality W. Bradford Wilcox Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Matthew O'Brien Why America's Doctor Shortage Might Mean Trouble for Obamacare Matthew O'Brien In Focus The Continued Eruptions of Mount Sinabung Most Popular 1 Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries 2 'You Have to Know History to Actually Teach It' 3 Court Rules That Yelp Must Unmask the Identities of Seven Anonymous Reviewers 4 What America Won in the ‘War on Poverty’ 5 What Niagara Falls Looks Like Without Water 6 How Netflix Reverse Engineered Hollywood 7 The Financial Benefits of Being Beautiful 8 The Myth of the Anti-Government Constitution 9 This Is Your Brain on Gluten 10 Surviving Anxiety Just In What Niagara Falls Looks Like Without Water Alexis C. Madrigal What America Won in the ‘War on Poverty’ Zachary Karabell Naked Lena, Oscarless Leo: The Week's Best Pop-Culture Writing Nolan Feeney, Ashley Fetters, Spencer Kornhaber ATLANTIC MEDIA The Wire Watch a West Virginia Man Set Tap Water on Fire After Local Chemical Spill Iran Nuclear Deal to Finally Take Effect Frequently Naked Band to Perform at the First Cold-Weather Super Bowl More from The Wire Atlantic Cities San Diego's Racial Profiling Crisis: Best #Cityreads of the Week At This 'Anti-Cafe,' You Pay Just to Sit Around The L.A. Public Library Is About to Start Offering High School Diplomas More from Atlantic Cities Quartz Ariel Sharon kicked my cousins out of Gaza. Here’s what they wanted to say to him before he died How I made sure all 12 of my kids could pay for college themselves Petro-states are threatening their rebel regions with lawsuits and gunshots More from Quartz National Journal Apostle of Conservation Retiring After Four Decades in Youth Development When Conservatism Collides With America’s Oil Boom Congress Prodded on Offshore-Drilling Safety More from National Journal Longreads Top 5 Longreads of the Week ‘I’m One of the Others Now’: What Life Was Like for a Family in East Germany How One Magazine Shaped Investigative Journalism in America More from Longreads Follow The Atlantic App store Facebook Twitter Linkedin Google Plus Tumblr RSS E-Newsletters Today's Top Stories This Week This Month New at In Focus Atlantic Cities 5 Best Columns Today's News Information FAQ Subscribe Help Masthead Store Emporium Jobs Privacy Site Map Terms and Conditions Advertise Advertising Guidelines Press Contact Us Special Reports Atlantic Scene Ebook Events Atlantic Media Subscribe Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price STATE AK AL AR AZ CA CO CT DC DE FL GA HI IA ID IL IN KS KY LA MA MD ME MI MN MO MS MT NC ND NE NH NJ NM NV NY OH OK OR PA RI SC SD TN TX UT VA VT WA WI WV WY YT Next ► Fraud alert regarding The Atlantic Copyright © 2014 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. CDN powered by Edgecast Networks. Insights powered by Parsely . Powered by the Parse.ly Publisher Platform (P3). 
