FDA Trans Fats Ban May Target Your Favorite Food | Video - ABC News
 Now Obamacare Mystery Woman • Playstation 4 • Kate Hudson • Ryan Ferguson • Amy Robach • iPad Mini Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Watch Live: House Committee Hearing on Obamacare Website Problems Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live FDA Trans Fats Ban May Target Your Favorite Food Find out whether the new rule will change the way you shop for groceries. 03:42 | 11/08/2013 Related Links: Watch: Will FDA Eliminate Trans Fats? Watch: Drew Barrymore's Big Year Watch: The Skinny on Trans Fats Share: Transcript for FDA Trans Fats Ban May Target Your Favorite Food Moving on to more on the big announcement from the fda requiring companies to phase out all transfats from our foods. Saying this could save up to 7,000 lives a year. Abc news health and wellness... See More Moving on to more on the big announcement from the fda requiring companies to phase out all transfats from our foods. Saying this could save up to 7,000 lives a year. Abc news health and wellness editor, david si cinco has more on this for us. Reporter: With the fda's announcement, you're probably wondering what are transfats doing in our food the first place? It's taste, texture, a longer shelf life. There's a downside. It raises bad cholesterol, lowers the good kind, and leads to 20,000 heart attacks and 7,000 deaths a year. California followed by 13 cities across the u.S., Have already banned transfats in restaurants. According to the american heart association, you should aim to have no more than two grams of transfat per day. The transfats are in so many foods we eat and in much higher levels than advised. At carl's jr., The biscuits and gravy has seven grams of transfats. At long john silver's, one taco has a what happening nine grams of transfat. What we should limit ourselves to an entire work week. And it's not just restaurants. Many of the foods in your local grocery store are loaded with transfats. This plea calendar's apple pie has three grams of transfat per serving. Pills bury grands biscuits, another three grams. And pop secret has five grams of transfat her serving. Long john silver's and carl's jr.S are going to eliminate oils that are high in transfats. What happens if food companies are forced to stop using transfats in their products? Will that cookie taste like it does now? When you do that substitution, you don't necessarily come up with the same cookie that your customers want. Reporter: Not such a crummy alternative, when you consider the health benefits. Not the biscuits. What is it about it that makes our food taste so good? It makes frosting smooth and creamy. And it becomes not a puddle of goo. It takes cakes and cookies and helps them brown more easily. Thank you. Tell me what's wrong with it again? It's -- 25% -- it's wrong. It's heart-harming, sam. And also 25% less expensive for food manufacturers and they love that. That's it. You brought a little prop with you because you're saying we should look at the label. And placement on the label is important. These are head fakes. This is a lot of advertising, marketing hype on the box. This quaker guy, he looks trusting. Ignore it. Flip the box over. Look at the label. If it says zero transfat but you find partially hydrogenated soybean oil, that means it has transfat. If it's high on the ingredients list, it means it has more of that. I didn't know that. Heart-healthy. It says it's heart-healthy. As americans, we have become really calorie-conscious. Now, we have to become ingredient conscious. And the good news is, all of your favorite foods, you can still find -- I've been researching them for seven years. There's a good swap for every one of your favorite foods that has zero transfat. Tell us later. And especially the biscuit one. Robin and I are very sad. Egg sandwich, george? Thanks, dave. This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate. Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 1:15 PM ET Entertainment Pop remind me 1:30 PM ET Headlines & Weather remind me 1:45 PM ET Tech This Out remind me 2:00 PM ET News Pop remind me 2:30 PM ET Headlines & Weather remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS sections: Most Popular U.S. World Politics Brian Ross Investigates Health Entertainment Money Tech Travel Extreme Video ABC News Audio Playlist: Health News Home > Video > Health > Health News New Guidelines for Statins Aim to Reduce Heart Disease Risk New Guidelines for Statins Aim to Reduce Heart Disease Risk Dr. Richard Besser discusses new recommendation from the American Heart Association. Intuitive Eating: the Anti-Diet Intuitive Eating: the Anti-Diet Fed up with yo-yo dieting, one woman decided simply to trust her body. Obamacare Enrollee Numbers to Fall Far Short Obamacare Enrollee Numbers to Fall Far Short First tally of who signed up for insurance through troubled site is expected to disappoint. Amy Robach on Breast Cancer Diagnosis: 'ABC News Saved My Life' Amy Robach on Breast Cancer Diagnosis: 'ABC News Saved My Life' The ABC News correspondant discusses her diagnosis. Disgraced Ex-Rutgers Coach on His Behavior Disgraced Ex-Rutgers Coach on His Behavior Mike Rice discusses the lessons he learned from seeing his abusive behavior on tape. FDA Trans Fats Ban May Target Your Favorite Food FDA Trans Fats Ban May Target Your Favorite Food Find out whether the new rule will change the way you shop for groceries. Will FDA Eliminate Trans Fats? Will FDA Eliminate Trans Fats? Preliminary finding could lead to listing partially hydrogenated oils as an unapproved additive. Doctor's Pre-Double Mastectomy Dance Party Doctor's Pre-Double Mastectomy Dance Party Dr. Deborah Cohan held a dance party in the operating room just before her surgery. Doctor Meets and Treats Patients in Starbucks Doctor Meets and Treats Patients in Starbucks Dr. Alvin Yee examined patients and prescribed medication at the coffeehouse in exchange for cash. FDA Declares Trans Fats 'Potentially Unsafe' FDA Declares Trans Fats 'Potentially Unsafe' Dr. Richard Besser discusses the risks of consuming too many trans fats. Lululemon Founder Blames Women's Bodies for See-Through Clothes Lululemon Founder Blames Women's Bodies for See-Through Clothes Chairman Chip Wilson said some women's bodies "don't work" for their pants. NFL Legend Tony Dorsett Diagnosed with CTE NFL Legend Tony Dorsett Diagnosed with CTE The former running back's doctors say his brain tested positive for the degenerative condition. 1 of 3 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2013 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
