Frustrated Father Apologizes for School Bus Confrontation | Video - ABC News
 Now Texting Shooting • Octomom Fraud • Kanye West • Evan Ross and Ashlee Simpson • Nest • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Watch Live: Digital Report: NJ Gov. Chris Christie Delivers State of the State Address Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Frustrated Father on School Bus Confrontation James Jones explains why he threatened his daughter's alleged bullies. 09/21/2010 Related Links: Watch: Uproar Over Dad's Bus Threats Watch: Caught on Tape: Dad Threatens Kids Share: Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 3:30 PM ET Headlines & Weather remind me 3:45 PM ET Second Tour remind me 4:00 PM ET Closing Bell remind me 4:30 PM ET Headlines & Weather remind me 5:00 PM ET News Pop remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS sections: Most Popular U.S. World Politics Health Entertainment Tech Travel Money Brian Ross Investigates The Assets: Meet the Real People Digital Reports Digital Originals Extreme Video ABC News Audio Home > Video > Most Popular Dispute in Movie Theater Ends in Fatal Shooting Dispute in Movie Theater Ends in Fatal Shooting Florida authorities arrest man suspected in shooting a couple over cell phone use. Moviegoer Shot to Death After Texting Argument Moviegoer Shot to Death After Texting Argument A retired police captain allegedly shot and killed a man in a Florida theater. Brawl Erupts Outside Florida Movie Theater Brawl Erupts Outside Florida Movie Theater Police say 600-person melee in parking lot started after a group tried to storm the theater without tickets. James Holmes Trial Could Last Months James Holmes Trial Could Last Months Colorado judge says jury selection could take three months and the trial could last five months. Texting Allegedly Triggers Movie Theater Shooting by Retired Police Captain Texting Allegedly Triggers Movie Theater Shooting by Retired Police Captain Chad Oulson was on a date with his wife, and wanted to send a text message to their young daughter. Two People Shot at Florida Movie Theater Two People Shot at Florida Movie Theater Man suspected in the shooting at a Tampa Bay area theater is in custody. Mom in Homeless Beating Death: 'They Murdered My Son' Mom in Homeless Beating Death: 'They Murdered My Son' Kelly Thomas's parents decry not guilty verdict of two California police officers charged in their son's death. Passenger Films Hawaiian Plane Crash from Inside Cabin Passenger Films Hawaiian Plane Crash from Inside Cabin Ferdinand Puentes captured the moment of impact and evacuation of Dec. plane crash that killed one. Madeleine McCann Case: 3 Alleged Burglars to Be Interviewed Madeleine McCann Case: 3 Alleged Burglars to Be Interviewed Detectives reportedly asked Portuguese authorities to find three suspects in girl's disappearance. 'Octomom' Faces Jail Time in Welfare Fraud Case 'Octomom' Faces Jail Time in Welfare Fraud Case Nadya Suleman, 38, could spend up to six years in prison if convicted of felony welfare fraud. Shots Fired at New Mexico Middle School Shots Fired at New Mexico Middle School A suspect is in custody after opening fire at Berrendo Middle School in Roswell. Homeless Man Beating: Video Shown in Court Homeless Man Beating: Video Shown in Court Two California police officers could be tried for the death of Kelly Thomas. Maddy McCann Mystery: Police Release Images of Possible Kidnap Suspect Maddy McCann Mystery: Police Release Images of Possible Kidnap Suspect Scotland Yard is still searching for leads in the 2007 disappearance of a little girl in Portugal. 1 Dead, 1 Missing After Fall Into River to Retrieve Phone 1 Dead, 1 Missing After Fall Into River to Retrieve Phone One of the victims tried to retrieve a cell phone from the icy waters, two others tried to rescue him. 'American Hustle,' Golden Globe Hosts Rule the Night 'American Hustle,' Golden Globe Hosts Rule the Night Jennifer Lawrence and Amy Adams walked away with wins for their performances. 1 of 2 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
