Brian Billick
 Search Welcome, {user} MANAGE MY ACCOUNT My Profile My Rewards Log Out Link Facebook Link Twitter Loading… Sign In | Register Fantasy Football News & Media Video Scores Schedules Standings Stats Watch NFL Games Live Tickets Shop Fans health & safety En Español Mobile NFL Network News Select a writer... Judy Battista Brian Billick Gil Brandt Albert Breer Bucky Brooks Charley Casserly Stacey Dales Dave Dameshek Jeff Darlington Charles Davis Rich Eisen Heath Evans Michael Fabiano Akbar Gbajabiamila Chase Goodbread Dan Greenspan Dan Hanzus Elliot Harrison Mike Huguenin Daniel Jeremiah Kimberly Jones Aditi Kinkhabwala Mark Kriegel Mike Mayock Kevin Patra Adam Rank Ian Rapoport Gregg Rosenthal Adam Schein Marc Sessler Michael Silver Matt Smith Jason Smith NFL UP! Ambassador Chris Wesseling Steve Wyche Charlie Yook Brian Billick   Brian Billick is a Super Bowl-winning coach who led the Ravens to the Lombardi Trophy in 2000. He spent nine seasons as Baltimore's head coach (1999-2007) after previously working as the Minnesota Vikings offensive coordinator (1994-98). In addition to writing for NFL.com, Billick is an analyst on NFL Network's "NFL Total Access" and other shows. November How to coach against the same elite team twice in three weeks November 20, 2013 With the results of games Sunday and Monday night, the league is facing an unusual situation: In each conference, two of the best teams play in the same division (New Orleans Saints and Carolina Panthers in the NFC South, Kansas City Chiefs and Denver... more Toxic differential favors Seattle Seahawks, Philadelphia Eagles November 13, 2013 We're 10 weeks into the 2013 season, and besides the six elite teams at the top (Seahawks, Saints, Panthers, Chiefs, Broncos, Patriots), it's hard to get a clear reading on much of the league. Are the Lions for real? Are the Colts and Bengals contenders... more John Fox, Gary Kubiak ordeals spotlight grind of NFL coaching November 06, 2013 On consecutive days last weekend, John Fox was hospitalized after feeling light-headed while golfing during the Denver Broncos' bye week, and Gary Kubiak fell to his knees while coming off the sideline at halftime of Sunday night's game between his... more October Andy Reid, Kansas City Chiefs must avoid perils of perfection October 30, 2013 "The key to success is reaching out, extending yourself, striking, and then, if you fail, bouncing back and doing it again -- being so resourceful that finally, when the moment comes again, you won't hesitate. What makes this possible is having a plan... more Josh Freeman, Matt Schaub exhibit NFL's eternal QB conundrum October 23, 2013 The oldest -- and perhaps truest -- clichÃ© in football is that you build your team around your quarterback. But at what point do you decide you made a mistake and start over? It's a question that the leaders of every NFL franchise must ponder sooner... more Running backs playing reduced role, but don't discount position October 16, 2013 As we take a look at the trends that are shaping the 2013 NFL campaign, it's clear that we've gotten a long way from the ground-game glory days of Eric Dickerson, O.J. Simpson and Jim Brown. Six weeks into this season, just two players -- LeSean McCoy... more Whether undefeated or winless, coaches face similar challenges October 09, 2013 The NFL has become more and more of a homogeneous league, with parity pushing all teams to the middle, but some extreme outliers still exist just beyond the quarter pole of the 2013 season. Entering Week 6, there are three teams sitting at 5-0 and four... more Peyton Manning and Tom Brady aren't human; more NFL lessons October 02, 2013 Every NFL season is a learning process. Preconceived notions of the summer often are turned on their head by Halloween (if not sooner), while players whose names might not have even appeared in their team's preseason previews wind up being a cause for... more September Andy Reid's Kansas City Chiefs proving value of good coaching September 25, 2013 It was late, and he'd probably had a few, but Jerry Jones spoke for a lot of owners one night in 1993 when he said "any one of 500 coaches could have won" the two Super Bowls claimed by the Dallas Cowboys under coach Jimmy Johnson. The obvious message... more Toughest transition? Why rookie wide receivers struggle in NFL September 18, 2013 Ask an average fan to name the easiest transition from college to the NFL, position-wise, and you're likely draw one common answer: wide receiver. The thought is that the relevant skills -- speed, hands and body positioning -- translate directly to the... more Christian Ponder, Josh Freeman among quarterbacks under fire September 11, 2013 There are 32 starting quarterbacks in the NFL, but there aren't really 32 players who can succeed at being a starting quarterback in the NFL. If you don't have a proven commodity at the position, the preseason can be a period during which you're... more Chip Kelly's Eagles will push pace, but won't revolutionize NFL September 04, 2013 As I traveled around the country this past month -- watching games, talking with coaches, preparing for the 2013 season -- one question came up most often, capturing the imagination of both the people who work in football and the fans who watch it: What... more June Ravens' handling of Ray Lewis case a lesson in managing crisis June 27, 2013 We are a long way from knowing the complete set of circumstances that led to Aaron Hernandez being arrested and charged in the murder of Odin Lloyd . Hernandez will have his day in court. But although it has no legal impact, the New England Patriots'... more Bill Belichick has right stuff to make Tim Tebow work for Patriots June 10, 2013 NFL.com caught up with NFL Network analyst -- and former NFL head coach -- Brian Billick for a quick question-and-answer session to get his thoughts on the New England Patriots' decision to bring on controversial quarterback Tim Tebow. Q: Why do you... more December Adrian Peterson vs. Peyton Manning: Who gets comeback nod? December 20, 2012 Associated Press Adrian Peterson (left) and Peyton Manning have overcome major health obstacles to have successful 2012 seasons. Much like the MVP award should change its name to the MVQB, the Comeback Player of the Year might as well be the... more Ray Rice, Arian Foster among key players to watch in Week 15 December 12, 2012 Associated Press Baltimore Ravens RB Ray Rice and Houston Texans RB Arian Foster will play crucial roles in a thrilling Week 15. The outcome of a game often turns on the performance of a single player. Can the star running back take control, or... more Chicago Bears' stifling defense continues to make the difference December 05, 2012 A handful of observations as we turn the page on Week 13 and head into Week 14: Â» Bears really bring it. The Chicago Bears got another turnover on Sunday against the Seattle Seahawks . When Brian Urlacher punched the ball away from running back... more November San Francisco 49ers reign supreme; Norv Turner's agonizing fall November 28, 2012 Three observations as we turn the page on Week 12 and head into Week 13: San Francisco's simply the best Harrison: Week 13 Power Rankings Twenty-six of the NFL's 32 teams are on the move -- some up, some down -- in Elliot Harrison 's updated pecking... more Special teams playing huge role in 2012 season; Week 10 notes November 14, 2012 Last Sunday, we saw two fake punts by the St. Louis Rams, a fake field goal for a touchdown by the Baltimore Ravens, a punt return for a touchdown by the Denver Broncos (albeit on a play that should have actually resulted in a touchback ) and a punt... more October Andy Reid right to keep Michael Vick as Eagles' starter October 31, 2012 Amid flying rumors and opining analysts, Andy Reid announced Wednesday that he would not replace Michael Vick as the starting quarterback for the Philadelphia Eagles. And you can hardly blame him. Benching Vick would have been the same as waving a... more Greg Schiano made right call for Tampa Bay Buccaneers October 24, 2012 By now, most of you have probably seen the great hustle play by New Orleans Saints safety Malcolm Jenkins, who ran down Tampa Bay Buccaneers receiver Vincent Jackson on a 95-yard pass play, tackling him just before the goal line. While that moment was... more Brady Quinn simply isn't the answer for the Kansas City Chiefs October 17, 2012 G. Newman Lowrance/Associated Press Kansas City Chiefs QB Brady Quinn continued to struggle as a starter Sunday, dropping his career record to 3-10. A handful of observations as we turn the page on Week 6 and head into Week 7: Â» New... more Houston Texans won't be slowed in face of Brian Cushing injury October 10, 2012 A handful of observations as we turn the page on Week 5 and head into Week 6: Â» Next man up in Houston. Brian Cushing's season-ending ACL injury obviously is a blow to the Houston Texans, but I don't believe it will send the team into a tailspin.... more Fumbling problem plagues NFL; quarterback not Jets' real issue October 03, 2012 Ed Zurga/Associated Press Chiefs RB Jamaal Charles has lost two fumbles in four games this season, matching his total from the 2010 season. A handful of observations as we turn the page on Week 4 and head into Week 5: Â» The fumbling... more September Packers' Mike McCarthy, Seahawks' Pete Carroll react well to call September 26, 2012 I'm not going to spend much time discussing what happened in Seattle on Monday night , but the class displayed by Green Bay Packers coach Mike McCarthy shouldn't go unnoticed. Coaches' postgame news conferences have provided some pretty intense (and often... more Dolphins need Ryan Tannehill to move; Eagles have dilemma September 19, 2012 A handful of observations as we turn the page on Week 2 and head into Week 3: Breer: Why are young QBs thriving? Ten teams are starting QBs with less than two years' experience. Is it working? Albert Breer explores in his weekly notes. More ...... more April How to draft a QB Part 7 Elite qualities in 2012 class April 24, 2012 As made clear in Parts 1-6, teams need an elite quarterback to compete in today's NFL. But getting one is the biggest risk an organization can take. It is easy to identify the qualities it takes to be successful as a quarterback in this league, but... more How to draft a QB Part 6 What makes a quarterback great April 23, 2012 When projecting the potential of any quarterback, you have to look at the environment he is entering. Signal callers develop differently in different systems, and a QB's brilliance and development can be stifled by the wrong setup. Archie Manning might... more How to Draft a QB Part 5 Spread QBs are a pain to evaluate April 20, 2012 The task of identifying the quarterbacks of the future isn't getting easier. There's an apple-and-oranges problem that's only getting worse. It's difficult to project quarterbacks from the spread offenses so prevalent in college into the multiple... more How to draft a QB Part 4 The Kyle Boller experience April 19, 2012 It is obvious that finding the right quarterback is the key to success in the NFL. So, you're thinking to yourself: Find an expert. Find someone who knows. Someone with a track record. Over the past 25 years, no one has had a better track record than... more How to draft a QB Part 3 What could have been April 18, 2012 The only thing that scares coaches and personnel people more than selecting a first-round quarterback who becomes a bust is not taking one who develops into a franchise player. Think about the teams that needed quarterbacks, yet passed on Aaron Rodgers,... more How to draft a QB Part 2 One and done April 17, 2012 If you're the general manager of a team that drafts the right quarterback -- like the Steelers, who took Terry Bradshaw in 1970, the Cowboys, who picked Troy Aikman in 1989, or the Colts, who picked Peyton Manning in 1998 -- you will feel that you have a... more How to Draft a QB Part 1 Nobody knows anything April 16, 2012 Academy Award-winning screenwriter William Goldman ("Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid," "Marathon Man") says there is a key rule that you must always remember to understand the way things work in Hollywood: "Nobody knows anything." When it comes to... more March NFL needs replay system that utilizes todays technology March 27, 2012 Ed Zurga/Associated Press In the NFL's current replay system, referees go under the hood to review multiple angles on a TV monitor. One of the more subtle points of intrigue at the NFL Annual Meeting this week in Palm Beach, Fla., is the proposal... more How would Saints operate under Carmichael or Spagnuolo March 22, 2012 Associated Press Offensive coordinator Pete Carmichael (left) and DC Steve Spagnuolo are candidates to replace Sean Payton in 2012. What now? The most difficult aspect of the path forward for the New Orleans Saints and coach Sean Payton is that... more Plenty of value remains as free agency enters second stage March 16, 2012 Associated Press Cedric Benson (left) and Brandon Lloyd are two players who still merit interest from several teams in free agency. Now that we are through the first flurry of free agency, it gets very interesting with regards to the value a team... more February No question now Manning belongs among NFLs top 12 QBs February 02, 2012 When the NFL Network rolled out its Top 100 players in the NFL series last summer, eyebrows were raised by Eli Manning's complete absence from the list. The Giants quarterback was coming off a 25-interception season and in the eyes of his peers, who... more January Dilfer aside elite quarterbacks essential to winning titles January 26, 2012 The NFL season began with New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning making a statement to a New York radio station that he considered himself to be among the league's elite at the position. At the time, it was a highly debatable topic. Now, having a shot at... more Biggest lessons learned from this seasons final foursome January 19, 2012 Back in my coaching days, I would set aside time every year to take a hard look at the final four teams that were playing on Championship Sunday. These teams obviously represent the most successful franchises of each particular season. The objective is to... more Reunion weekend Rematches dominate divisional slate January 12, 2012 Rematches have been a hot topic this week, sparked by Monday night's BCS title game between Alabama and LSU. The Tigers won the regular-season meeting, but the Tide took round two and left New Orleans with a national championship. In the NFL, rematches... more Statistics show strengths weaknesses of playoff teams January 05, 2012 As Mark Twain was fond of saying, "There are lies, damn lies, and statistics." People can use statistics to serve whatever argument they might want to support. Coaches are the first to dismiss statistics as irrelevant to the game. They often say that the... more December Reseeding playoffs would add more meaning to Week 17 games December 29, 2011 This is my annual futile attempt to propose to the NFL that it is time to consider reseeding the playoffs once the teams have been established. How Billick would reseed playoffs Teams would get in by winning the division and there would be two wild... more Lions close in on playoff spot thanks to Stafford effect December 22, 2011 I have called Detroit Lions games a couple of times in the past month and will have them once again to finish the season next weekend against the Green Bay Packers. Of all the things you can point to in identifying how they have transformed from the... more Firing coaches now gives teams head start in hiring process December 15, 2011 With the firings of Todd Haley and Tony Sparano this week, the annual coaching frenzy officially has begun. The three dismissals (Jacksonville canned Jack Del Rio earlier in the season) nearly match the number of coaches who were let go during the season... more Manning Colts headed for very interesting offseason December 08, 2011 When the calendar flips to 2012 next month, the country will be focused on three things: 1. Who will win the Iowa caucuses? 2. Will the Broncos stay with Tim Tebow at QB? 3. Will the Colts draft Andrew Luck? The Colts-Luck situation will be the... more Bills WR Johnson must learn team is about us not me December 01, 2011 A few quick thoughts around the league: Selfish Stevie Steve Johnson is the type of player who keeps me from getting back into coaching. His TD celebration was a selfish act that said this is all about "me" and not about "us." Johnson's celebration had... more November Toxic differential an essential indicator of success in NFL November 17, 2011 Jim Brown/US Presswire Danieal Manning (38) and the Texans have 14 interceptions as a team this season, third best in the NFL. Â  People are constantly looking for the right combination of stats to indicate the probable success of a team. What... more Rodgers gets credit but supporting cast drives Packs success November 10, 2011 Tim Heitman/US Presswire Aaron Rogers, left, lobbied in the offseason for the Packers to re-sign wide receiver James Jones. Â  After calling the Packers-Chargers game for Fox last Sunday, I was told via Twitter that I might have a slight... more Cowboys have reason to be optimistic in NFC East race November 03, 2011 Every team has a tough schedule in the NFL. But when and where specific games are scheduled plays a huge part in the momentum it takes to get into the playoffs. Case in point, the NFC East. After Dallas was beat down in Philadelphia , Cowboys owner... more October Go in another direction Winless coaches are in tough spots October 27, 2011 As we approach the midway point of the NFL season, the inevitable march to the first firing of a coach has begun. Based on last year's record number of in-season firings coupled with the performance of some of the teams thus far, we know the day is... more In the passhappy NFL defense will carry the 49ers only so far October 20, 2011 Associated Press/US Presswire Alex Smith (left) and Frank Gore have helped lead the Niners to a surprising 5-1 start to the season. It's unfortunate the incident between Jim Harbaugh and Jim Schwartz overshadowed one of the best defensive... more When it comes to passing yardage 400 is the new 300 October 13, 2011 When it comes to age, they say 50 is the new 40. When it comes to fashion, gray is the new black. And when it comes to passing yardage, 400 is the new 300. It used to be that if a quarterback threw for 300-plus yards, it was something special... more Playing like dogs Philadelphia needs to adopt the Cat October 06, 2011 The Philadelphia Eagles' defense is in full crisis mode, and new coordinator Juan Castillo needs to find a way to adjust his strategies to fit the considerable assets the unit has acquired. Lombardi: What's wrong in Philly? Frustration has set in for... more September Passing game is changing football but might not be for better September 29, 2011 I have been on the offensive side of the ball for virtually my entire football career. I love the passing game and the artistry it represents. Heading into Week 4, NFL quarterbacks have thrown for better than 300 yards 34 times, obliterating the previous... more Difficult Week 3 road games could trip Patriots Jets September 22, 2011 Winning on the road is the hardest thing to do -- not just in the NFL but in all of professional team sports. The time-honored formula to be a good team is to win at home, split on the road, beat the teams you are supposed to beat and split with the ones... more Kolb Cardinals are class of NFC West Pats D in trouble September 15, 2011 Tim Heitman/US Presswire Quarterback Kevin Kolb threw for 309 yards and led the Cardinals to victory in his first game. Lost in all the excitement over Tom Brady's 517-yard night and Cam Newton's 422-yard debut in Week 1 was another... more Eagles enter season with question marks in critical areas September 08, 2011 Former NFL coach Brian Billick, who led the Ravens to a Super Bowl XXXV title, is now an analyst for NFL Network. This is his first column for NFL.com. Due to the lockout and the unique nature of this year's offseason, there are three criteria I am... more Other Links Scoreboard Standings Stats NFL Tickets Directory NFL Ticket Exchange Information Contact Us FAQ | Rule Book Public Relations Jobs: League | Team Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Initiatives NFL Rush Play 60 In the Community NFL Auction Media Info NFL Communications Media Kit Media Guides Player Services NFL Health & Safety NFL Player Care Player Engagement More NFL Sites NFL Youth Tackle USA Football NFL International NFL On Location NFL Extra Points   Pro Football Hall of Fame NFL Ticket Exchange NFL Shop Licensing © 2013 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League. NFL footage © NFL Productions LLC.   Bills Dolphins Patriots Jets Ravens Bengals Browns Steelers Texans Colts Jaguars Titans Broncos Chiefs Raiders Chargers Cowboys Giants Eagles Redskins Bears Lions Packers Vikings Falcons Panthers Saints Buccaneers Cardinals Rams 49ers Seahawks © 2013 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League. NFL footage © NFL Productions LLC. PRIVACY POLICY | Terms & Conditions NFL News CONTENT 15 
