The tradition continues: NFL to remain on broadcast TV - NFL.com
 Search Welcome, {user} MANAGE MY ACCOUNT My Profile My Rewards Log Out Link Facebook Link Twitter Loading… Sign In | Register Fantasy Football News & Media Video Scores Schedules Standings Stats Watch NFL Games Live Tickets Shop Fans health & safety En Español Mobile NFL Network News         The tradition continues: NFL to remain on broadcast TV National Football League Published: Dec. 14, 2011 at 03:04 p.m. Updated: July 26, 2012 at 08:53 p.m. 0 Likes  |  0 Comments Email Like Print Read Discuss Friend(s) Email Your Email Send Email By National Football League More Columns > The National Football League has agreed to nine-year extensions of its Sunday broadcast television packages with CBS, FOX and NBC that will keep NFL games on free, over-the-air television, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell announced Wednesday. The nine-year terms are the longest for NFL television agreements with over-the-air broadcast partners, surpassing the eight-year deals signed with CBS, FOX and ABC from 1998 to 2005. The new agreements run through the 2022 season. The NFL's current television agreements expire following the 2013 season. The agreements also enable the NFL to expand its Thursday night package of games on NFL Network beginning next year. The number of additional Thursday night games has not been determined. The NFL is the only sports league that delivers all of its games -- regular-season and playoffs -- on free, over-the-air television. (ESPN's Monday night and NFL Network's Thursday night cable games are required by contract to be carried on over-the-air, broadcast stations in the cities of the participating teams, subject to local blackout rules). CBS will televise the American Football Conference package of Sunday afternoon games that it acquired in 1998. CBS first began televising NFL games in 1956 and carried the NFC package from 1970 through 1993. FOX will continue with the National Football Conference package of Sunday afternoon games that it acquired in 1994. NBC will again carry the Sunday Night Football package of primetime games that it acquired in 2006. NBC will continue to televise the Thursday night NFL season Kickoff game to open each season and will add the annual Thanksgiving primetime game starting in 2012. Flexible scheduling -- which ensures quality matchups in all NFL Sunday time slots and gives teams a chance to play their way onto primetime on NBC and into the late-afternoon 4:15 PM ET time slot on CBS and FOX -- remains a viewer-friendly element of the network broadcast agreements. It will be expanded in 2014, including the ability to move games between CBS and FOX to bring regional games to wider audiences. Further details on enhanced flexible scheduling will be developed with the networks. CBS, FOX and NBC will each televise three Super Bowls during the term of the agreements, continuing the current rotation. NBC will carry Super Bowl XLIX (49) in Glendale, Ariz., in 2015, Super Bowl LII (52) in 2018 and Super Bowl LV (55) in 2021. CBS will broadcast Super Bowl L (50) in 2016, Super Bowl LIII (53) in 2019 and Super Bowl LVI (56) in 2022. FOX will televise Super Bowl LI (51) in 2017, Super Bowl LIV (54) in 2020 and Super Bowl LVII (57) in 2023. "These agreements underscore the NFL's unique commitment to broadcast television that no other sport has," Commissioner Goodell said. "The agreements would not have been possible without our new 10-year labor agreement and the players deserve great credit. Long-term labor peace is allowing the NFL to continue to grow, and the biggest beneficiaries are the players and fans." Commissioner Goodell said NFL fans should expect ongoing innovation from the NFL and its TV partners. "CBS, FOX and NBC have served NFL fans with the highest-quality television production," Commissioner Goodell said. "The networks will continue their outstanding coverage of the NFL while also helping to deliver more football to more fans using the best and most current technology." Earlier this season, the NFL and ESPN reached an eight-year extension to keep Monday Night Football on ESPN through the 2021 season. NFL games are 23 of the 25 most-watched programs among all television shows this fall and draw more than twice as many average viewers as broadcast primetime shows. Headlines Latest Official Ellison suspended 1 game for cursing at Trent Williams Incognito-Wells meeting spans two days, lasts over eight hours Browns TE Cameron blames coverage, not QB for fewer catches Terrell Thomas guarantees Giants 'gonna win' game vs. Cowboys Vick: Foles should stay Eagles' starter | QB tops Making the Leap Brock, 49ers reach four-year, $16M contract extension | Fantasy Teammate: RGIII's comments 'cold-blooded' | Is Glennon better? Allen hints at exploring free agency in 2014 | Vikes-Pack preview Jerry Jones: I'm doing some of my 'best work' as Cowboys GM Subscribe More News > Videos 0 / 0 More Videos > Photos 0 / 0 More Photos > NFL Shop 0 / 0 More Gear > Spotlight If the season ended today ... Old-school Big Ten can't compete What we learned from Week 11 A dread-ful loss The evolution of the NFL Staying or going? Underclassmen tracker for 2014 NFL Draft NFL Fantasy LIVE podcast Back to Top CAN'T MISS STORIES ON NFL.COM RECENT FEATURES NFL.com's Weekend Guide: Week 12 Sanchez's new look When love and hate collide in sports RECENT VIDEOS NFL.com's Weekend Guide: Week 12 'Playbook': Broncos vs. Patriots Friday Night Spotlight: Justin Tuck Franchise player? How will the Chicago Bears handle Jay Cutler's contract situation? His projected franchise-tag number for 2014 is $16.2 million. Check out the rest of the tag figures. Read Latest Headlines Official Ellison suspended 1 game for cursing at Trent Williams Incognito-Wells meeting spans two days, lasts over eight hours Browns TE Cameron blames coverage, not QB for fewer catches Terrell Thomas guarantees Giants 'gonna win' game vs. Cowboys Vick: Foles should stay Eagles' starter | QB tops Making the Leap Brock, 49ers reach four-year, $16M contract extension | Fantasy Teammate: RGIII's comments 'cold-blooded' | Is Glennon better? Allen hints at exploring free agency in 2014 | Vikes-Pack preview Jerry Jones: I'm doing some of my 'best work' as Cowboys GM More News Information Contact Us FAQ | Rule Book Public Relations Jobs: League | Team Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Initiatives NFL Rush Play 60 In the Community NFL Auction Media Info NFL Communications Media Kit Media Guides Player Services NFL Health & Safety NFL Player Care Player Engagement More NFL Sites NFL Youth Tackle USA Football NFL International NFL On Location NFL Extra Points   Pro Football Hall of Fame NFL Ticket Exchange NFL Shop Licensing © 2013 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League. NFL footage © NFL Productions LLC.   Bills Dolphins Patriots Jets Ravens Bengals Browns Steelers Texans Colts Jaguars Titans Broncos Chiefs Raiders Chargers Cowboys Giants Eagles Redskins Bears Lions Packers Vikings Falcons Panthers Saints Buccaneers Cardinals Rams 49ers Seahawks © 2013 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League. NFL footage © NFL Productions LLC. PRIVACY POLICY | Terms & Conditions NFL News CONTENT 15 
