Tracking underclassmen intentions for 2014 NFL Draft - NFL.com
 Search Welcome, {user} MANAGE MY ACCOUNT My Profile My Rewards Log Out Link Facebook Link Twitter Loading… Sign In | Register Fantasy Football News & Media Video Scores Schedules Standings Stats Watch NFL Games Live Tickets Shop Fans health & safety En Español Mobile NFL Network College Football 24/7         Tracking underclassmen intentions for 2014 NFL Draft NFL.com Published: Dec. 15, 2013 at 02:06 p.m. Updated: Jan. 4, 2014 at 01:58 a.m. 0 Likes  |  0 Comments Email Like Print Read Discuss Friend(s) Email Your Email Send Email By NFL.com More Columns > » List: Players who declared early for 2014 NFL Draft NFL.com's College Football 24/7 is tracking the latest news on college football underclassmen in anticipation for the 2014 NFL Draft. Underclassmen have until Jan. 15, 2014 to declare for the draft. Marqise Lee, WR, USC Jan. 3: Lee announces he's entering 2014 draft  Lee announced via his Twitter account Friday that he will forgo his senior season and enter the 2014 draft. Last year's Biletnikoff winner, Lee struggled through injuries this season but finished the year with one of his best performances, scoring two touchdowns in the Las Vegas Bowl. After the game, NFL Media analyst Bucky Brooks said he thinks Lee will be the best receiver in the 2014 draft. Braxton Miller, QB, Ohio State Jan. 3: Miller says he's ready for NFL Miller threw two costly interceptions late in the Buckeyes' 40-35 loss to Clemson in the Orange Bowl and said after that he would speak with coach Urban Meyer about his future. Miller, who finished 16 of 24 for 234 yards with two TDs and two INTs, has previously stated that he believes he's ready to play in the NFL. Kony Ealy, DE, Missouri Jan. 3: Ealy says he's turning pro Ealy had two more sacks in Missouri's 41-31 win over Oklahoma State in the Cotton Bowl and announced after the game that he will enter the 2014 draft. Ealy (6-foot-5, 275 pounds) finished the season with 9.5 sacks and also had 14.5 tackles for loss. Blake Bortles, QB, Central Florida Jan. 3: Report: Bortles receives first-round draft grade Bortles reportedly received a first-round grade from the NFL Draft Advisory Board, according to a report in the Orlando Sentinel, citing a source with direct knowledge of the draft grade. Bortles, who led UCF to an upset victory over Baylor in the Fiesta Bowl, met with UCF coach George O'Leary on Friday to discuss his future. Earlier this week, Phil Savage, the executive director of the Reese's Senior Bowl, tweeted that Bortles received a second-round grade from the advisory board. Scott Crichton, DE, Oregon State Jan. 3: Crichton entering 2014 NFL Draft One day after teammate Brandin Cooks declared, Crichton said he would bypass his senior season and enter the draft. A three-year starter for the Beavers, Crichton (6-foot-3, 265 pounds) had 7.5 sacks and 19 tackles for loss this season. Jadeveon Clowney, DE, South Carolina Jan. 3: Clowney picks Cook over Jay-Z Clowney, who has announced that he he will enter the 2014 NFL Draft, has reportedly picked agent Bus Cook over Jay-Z's Roc Nation Sports, although the reasons are unclear. Cook's agency, BC Sports, represents such NFL stars as Cam Newton and Calvin Johnson, among others. Ego Ferguson, DT, LSU Jan. 3:  Ferguson will forgo senior season and turn pro One day after teammate Anthony Johnson announced he is turning pro, Ferguson said he will skip his senior season at LSU and declare for the 2014 draft. A 6-foot-3, 309-pound defensive tackle, Ferguson had 58 tackles and 3.5 tackles for loss in his first year as a starter this season. Bruce Ellington, WR, South Carolina Jan. 3: Ellington says he's going pro early Ellington, who finished his junior season with a two-touchdown performance in the Capital One Bowl, confirmed that he will forgo his senior season and enter the 2014 NFL Draft. The decision means that Ellington will end his career with South Carolina's basketball team and begin training to improve his draft position. Marcus Roberson, CB, Florida Jan. 3: Roberson leaving Gators for draft Roberson announced he will enter the 2014 draft, becoming the second cornerback the Gators will lose to the 2014 draft, along with Loucheiz Purifoy. Roberson (6-0, 195 pounds) played in just seven games this season because of injuries, making 11 tackles and three pass breakups. He did not record an interception. Terrance Mitchell, CB, Oregon Jan. 3: Mitchell declares despite draft grade Mitchell, who led Oregon with five interceptions this season, has decided to enter the 2014 draft despite receiving a less-than-favorable grade from the draft advisory board, saying, "It wasn't a fair evaluation." Teammate Ifo Ekpre-Olomu is also considering early entry to the draft. Khairi Fortt, LB, California Jan. 3: Fortt skipping senior season to enter draft Fortt announced that he will enter the 2014 draft, becoming the third underclassman on Cal's 1-11 team to declare. A 6-foot-2, 240-pound linebacker, Fortt started his college career at Penn State but joined Cal when the Nittany Lions were hit with NCAA sanctions resulting from the Jerry Sandusky scandal. Anthony Johnson, DT, LSU Jan. 2: Johnson going pro Johnson announced his decision to enter the 2014 draft via Twitter. Johnson, in his first year as a full-time starter for the Tigers, didn't meet expectations. He delivered nine tackles for loss and three sacks among 35 tackles, but made limited impact in several key games, including LSU's losses to Georgia, Alabama and Ole Miss. DeVante Parker, WR, Louisville Jan. 2: Parker decides to return Parker, a junior, announced via Twitter that he will return for his senior season with the Cardinals. He has 22 TD receptions in the past two seasons and led the team with 785 yards receiving this season. Mike Evans, WR, Texas A&M Jan. 2: Evans declares for draft NFL Media senior analyst Gil Brandt reported Dec. 30 that Evans would enter the 2014 draft, and Evans confirmed the report Jan. 2 in a statement released by Texas A&M. "After talking things over with Coach Sumlin and my family I have decided to enter the NFL draft," Evans said. "Thanks go to Texas A&M for giving me an opportunity to play college football. Thanks also to my coaches and teammates for helping me develop as a player and as a man." Allen Robinson, WR, Penn State Jan. 2: Robinson headed for draft Penn State junior wide receiver Allen Robinson will bypass his senior season and turn pro, the school announced. Robinson led the Big Ten in receptions and receiving yardage in each of the past two seasons. He had 174 receptions and 2,445 receiving yards in that span. Brandin Cooks, WR, Oregon State Jan. 2: Cooks declares for draft Cooks announced he will enter the 2014 NFL Draft on the heels of his record-setting junior season. Cooks had 128 receptions for 1,730 yards, breaking the Pac-12 records in each category set by Marqise Lee of USC in 2012. Cooks, who caught 16 touchdowns, also won the Biletnikoff Award as the top receiver in the nation. David Yankey, OL, Stanford Jan. 1: Yankey not ready to announce draft decision Yankey, who has one season of eligibility remaining, said after the Rose Bowl that he would take the "days and weeks" to come to make a decision about the 2014 draft. Cardinal coach David Shaw said earlier this season that he wouldn't be surprised if Yankey declared for the draft and that the star OL is good enough to go pro. Jadeveon Clowney, DE, South Carolina Jan. 1: Clowney announces decision following Capital One Bowl Not that there was any suspense left after his coach joked about a limo driving him away from the Capital One Bowl, but Clowney confirmed in a postgame interview what has long been assumed. "Yes sir," Clowney responded when asked if he will enter the 2014 NFL Draft. Teddy Bridgewater, QB, Louisville Jan. 1: Bridgewater to enter draft Louisville junior quarterback Teddy Bridgewater will enter the 2014 NFL Draft, NFL Media senior analyst Gil Brandt confirmed Wednesday. Bridgewater long has been considered the most pro-ready quarterback in the 2014 draft class and he is one of the top contenders to be the No. 1 pick. Blake Bortles, QB, Central Florida Jan. 1: Bortles still awaiting NFL draft feedback Bortles, who has guided the Knights to a spot in the Fiesta Bowl, is awaiting word from the NFL Draft Advisory Board before he makes a decision on whether to turn pro. Bortles in his second season as the full-time starter, has rocketed up draft boards this season. He is a big, physical guy with a strong arm and excellent mobility. Texas A&M QB Johnny Manziel and WR Mike Evans Dec. 31:  Manziel, Evans not ready to announce decisions NFL Media senior analyst Gil Brandt reported Monday that Manziel and Evans would enter the 2014 draft, but neither was prepared to make an announcement following Texas A&M's 52-48 win in the Chick-fil-A Bowl. Evans said he has made his decision and would announce it within the next couple of days. Manziel was less specific, saying, "I have until (January) 15th, so we'll see." Brett Hundley, QB, UCLA Dec. 31: Hundley says Sun Bowl performance makes decision "harder" Hundley showed off his dual-threat talent in Tuesday's Sun Bowl, passing for two TDs and rushing for two more in UCLA's 42-12 rout of Virginia Tech. Asked after the game whether the performance would make his draft decision harder or easier, Hundley responded, "Harder." UCLA head coach Jim Mora said earlier this week that he does not think the Sun Bowl would be Hundley's final college game, and at least one NFL scout has said he thinks Hundley should stay put.  George Uko, DL, USC Dec. 31: Uko declares for draft  Uko announced via Twitter that he will enter the 2014 NFL Draft. A 6-foot-3, 275-pound redshirt junior, Uko had 36 tackles, seven tackles for loss, five sacks, one forced fumble, one fumble recovery and two blocked kicks for the Trojans this season. NFL Media analyst Daniel Jeremiah was impressed by the quickness and disruptive ability Uko showed during his strong 2013 season. Jace Amaro, TE, Texas Tech Dec. 30: Amaro announces he's going pro  Amaro announced after Tuesday's Holiday Bowl that he will enter the 2014 NFL Draft. A junior, Amaro had eight catches for 112 yards in the Red Raiders' 37-23 win over Arizona State, finishing the season with 106 catches for 1,356 yards, an NCAA single-season record for receiving yards by a tight end; he also had seven touchdowns. Amaro joins Austin Seferian-Jenkins and Eric Ebron as the draft's top tight ends. Bishop Sankey, RB, Washington  Dec. 30: Sankey declares for draft Sankey, who rushed for a school-record 1,870 yards and 20 touchdowns this season, said he will enter the 2014 NFL Draft. A junior, Sankey received a third-round grade from the NFL Draft Advisory Board. Calvin Pryor, S, Louisville Dec. 30: Pryor says he'll enter 2014 draft Pryor announced via his Instagram account Sunday night that he will enter the 2014 NFL Draft. A junior, Pryor earned first-team All-ACC honors after totaling 75 tackles, three interceptions, four pass breakups and two forced fumbles. Russell Bodine, C, North Carolina Dec. 30: Bodine headed for the NFL Bodine, a fourth-year junior who started two years for the Heels, announced that he will forgo his senior season and enter the 2014 NFL Draft. An honorable mention All-ACC selection this season, Bodine is the second junior center to declare for the draft, joining USC's Marcus Martin. Ryan Shazier, LB, Ohio State Dec. 30: Shazier gets second-round draft grade Shazier, a junior considered one of the nation's top linebackers, received a second-round grade from the draft advisory board. Earlier this month, he said he is leaning toward returning for his senior season with the Buckeyes, but said he wants to speak with his coaches and family after Ohio State's game against Clemson in the Orange Bowl before making a decision. At 6-2, 230 pounds, Shazier is considered by many to be small for his position, but NFL Media analyst Charles Davis said this week that Shazier's size shouldn't be a problem in the NFL. Cyrus Kouandjio, OT, Alabama Dec. 29: Kouandjio '50-50' on draft Kouandjio is considered one of the top prospects at any position in college football, but the Crimson Tide junior has yet to make a decision about the 2014 draft. He indicated he's "50-50" on whether to declare or return for another season. Kapri Bibbs, RB, Colorado State Dec. 29: Bibbs announces draft decision on Twitter Bibbs, a third-year sophomore, tweeted that he will enter the 2014 NFL Draft. The 5-foot-11, 203-pound back led the NCAA in rushing touchdowns with 31 this season. He ranked fourth in the FBS with 1,741 yards rushing. Stephon Tuitt, DE, Notre Dame Dec. 28:  Kelly: Tuitt's draft decision coming 'very, very soon' Tuitt had four tackles and 1.5 sacks in Notre Dame's 29-16 win over Rutgers in the Pinstripe Bowl, and Irish coach Brian Kelly said after the game that he expected Tuitt to decide whether he'll return to school or go pro "very, very soon." A junior, Tuitt has wavered on his draft decision over the last few months, saying in October that he would return for his senior season, before his mother said the next day that Tuitt misspoke. Davante Adams, WR, Fresno State Dec. 28: Adams decides to go pro Adams, a redshirt sophomore, will enter the 2014 NFL Draft after leading the FBS with 131 receptions for 1,719 yards and 24 touchdowns. He has already signed an agent, eliminating the possibility he will return to Fresno State. NFL Media analyst Daniel Jeremiah has compared Adams (6-foot-2, 216 pounds) to San Diego Chargers rookie Keenan Allen. Bruce Ellington, WR, South Carolina Dec. 28: Ellington giving up hoops for NFL? Ellington is the starting point guard for the Gamecocks basketball team but indicated he would give up basketball to prepare for the draft if he decides to declare. Ellington is waiting to see the results from his NFL Draft Advisory Board evaluation before making a decision on his future. Ramik Wilson, LB, Georgia Dec. 28: Wilson says he'll return for senior season After considering declaring early for the NFL draft, Wilson has decided to return for another season with the Bulldogs. "It was just nice to think about. I'm blessed to have the opportunity," Wilson said, according to dawgs247.com. "I was just enjoying the moment, like 'The dream is coming true. I have a chance to get drafted and all that.' But school is more important. I need my degree at the end of the day." George Atkinson III, RB, Notre Dame Dec. 28: Atkinson suspended for Pinstripe Bowl Did Notre Dame coach Brian Kelly make RB George Atkinson III's draft decision a bit easier? Atkinson, who has applied for feedback from the NFL Draft Advisory Board, tweeted that he was suspended from the Pinstripe Bowl for sending a text message during a team meal. Atkinson quickly deleted the tweet, but he clearly was frustrated with the decision. Demarcus Lawrence, DE, Boise State Dec. 28: Lawrence says he's entering 2014 draft Lawrence announced his intentions for the 2014 NFL Draft on Facebook. "While Coach Peterson's decision to take the Washington job had some influence on my decision I felt it was in the best interests of my family and myself to pursue my lifelong dream to become an NFL player," Lawrence wrote in the social-media post. His 20.5 tackles for loss this season led the Mountain West Conference and ranked third in the NCAA. Austin Seferian-Jenkins, TE, Washington Dec. 27: Seferian-Jenkins intends to enter draft Seferian-Jenkins said after the Fight Hunger Bowl that he will enter the 2014 NFL Draft. The junior reportedly received a second-round grade from the NFL Draft Advisory Board. He's considered one of the top three draft-eligible tight ends in the nation, along with UNC's Eric Ebron and Texas Tech's Jace Amaro. Colt Lyerla, TE, Oregon Dec. 27: Lyerla pleads guilty to cocaine possession Lyerla, a former Oregon tight end, pleaded guilty to cocaine possession. He was sentenced to 10 days in jail and 40 of community service. He will also be on probation for the next 24 months. Lyerla will be required to attend drug treatment and submit to random testing, but he will be allowed to move to Las Vegas to train for the 2014 draft. Lyerla was arrested in October after leaving school to pursue the NFL. Brett Smith, QB, Wyoming Dec. 27: Smith announces draft decision Smith, who threw for 3,375 yards and 29 TDs during the 2013 season, became the first underclassman quarterback to declare for the 2014 draft. "It was extremely tough, that's for sure. But I just felt like with the entire situation of things, I made a decision that being in the NFL was my absolute dream, and I just wanted to pursue it," Smith said. Frank Clark, DE, Michigan Dec. 27: Clark decides to return for senior season Clark sought feedback from the NFL Draft Advisory Board and said he will stay in school for his senior season after receiving a draft grade that was in line with his expectations. Clark and the Wolverines will wrap up their season Saturday against Kansas State in the Buffalo Wild Wings Bowl. Jake Murphy, TE, Utah Dec. 27: Murphy intends to declare for 2014 draft Murphy, the son of former Major League Baseball All-Star Dale Murphy, announced that he will forgo his senior season at Utah and enter the 2014 NFL Draft. He was limited to eight games this season because of a wrist injury and had 25 catches for 417 yards and five touchdowns. Ifo Ekpre-Olomu, CB, Oregon Dec. 27: Ekpre-Olomu denies he's made draft decision Ekpre-Olomu refuted a report that he has decided to return to Oregon for his senior season, saying he would like to meet with his parents first before making a decision. One of the top cornerback prospects in the nation, Ekpre-Olomu has said he will not be influenced by the feedback he receives from the NFL Draft Advisory Board, saying he is more concerned with making sure he is physically and mentally ready to play in the pros. Teddy Bridgewater, QB, Louisville Dec. 27: AFC scout: Bridgewater 'a second-rounder' Bridgewater is viewed by many as a potential No. 1 overall pick, but one AFC scouting director told Albert Breer that he thinks Bridgewater is "a second-rounder." Earlier this month NFL media draft analyst Daniel Jeremiah said he believes Bridgewater  has been overhyped and "elevated above his ability," while Charles Davis believes he is more of a "top-10 guy." Bridgewater dropped a hint on Twitter last week that he may be leaning toward going pro, but later acknowledged he isn't certain he's ready for the NFL and wants to "evaluate everything" after Louisville plays Miami in Saturday's Russell Athletic Bowl. Marcus Martin, C, USC Dec. 27: Martin announces he will enter draft Martin tweeted Friday that he will forgo his senior season at USC and enter the 2014 NFL Draft. A first-team Pac-12 selection this season, Martin started 33 games over the last three seasons, playing guard and center. Storm Johnson, RB, Central Florida Dec. 27: Johnson holding draft decision off until after Fiesta Bowl Johnson, a junior who rushed for 1,015 yards and 11 touchdowns this season, said he would decide whether to turn pro after the Knights face Baylor in the Fiesta Bowl on Jan. 1. Teammate Blake Bortles is also considering early entry into the draft. Denzel Perryman, LB, Miami (Fla.) Dec. 26: Perryman waiting until after bowl game to make decision Perryman, a first-team All-ACC pick, said he is going to wait until after Miami's appearance in the Dec. 28 Russell Athletic Bowl to make a decision about whether to enter the 2014 NFL Draft. Perryman leads the Hurricanes with 104 tackles. Sean Hickey, OT, Syracuse Dec. 26: Hickey undecided about future Hickey has requested feedback from the NFL Draft Advisory Board, but he says his focus has been on the Dec. 27 Texas Bowl. He plans to make a decision on whether to turn pro after the game. Hickey replaced Justin Pugh, a 2013 first-round pick of the Giants, at left tackle for the Orange this season. Kameron Jackson, CB, California Dec. 24: Jackson announces intention to enter 2014 draft Jackson announced on his Twitter account that he intends to bypass his senior season at California and enter the 2014 NFL Draft. A junior, Jackson had four interceptions in his Cal career, including three in his signature game against UCLA last year. Kony Ealy, DE, Missouri Dec. 23: Ealy seeks draft advice from NFL players Ealy has been in touch with several NFL players, including the Jets' Sheldon Richardson and the 49ers' Aldon Smith, as he decides whether to turn pro or return to Missouri for his senior season. Tigers defensive line coach Craig Kuligowski also had some advice for Ealy: "If the guy is going to be a top-five pick or something like that, we want him to go. If he's not going to be a high-round draft pick, we don't advise him to go." Dion Bailey, S, USC Dec. 23: Bailey announces draft decision Bailey, a redshirt junior, announced he will enter the 2014 NFL Draft. He played safety in 2013 after spending the previous two seasons at linebacker, and his versatility could intrigue NFL teams. "He would be a good candidate to play in sub packages as a nickel/dime linebacker," NFL Media analyst Daniel Jeremiah told College Football 24/7. "If he plays safety, he'll be an excellent underneath defender but I'd have concerns with him as the high safety." Johnny Manziel, QB, Texas A&M Dec. 22:  Manziel not a lock for first round? Johnny Manziel has said he might not enter the 2014 draft if projections indicate he won't be picked in the first round, and one NFL scout suggested that might be the situation the Texas A&M QB will find himself in. "... There will probably be three (QBs selected) in the first. Depends what people think of Johnny Manziel," the scout said. Greg Robinson, OT, Auburn Dec. 22:  Scout: Robinson would be picked in first half of first round Robinson, a third-year sophomore, has not yet declared his intentions for 2014. He has been generating plenty of buzz in NFL circles of late, though, and one scout described him as "a stud" to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. NFL Media analyst Daniel Jeremiah recently wrote that Robinson has ideal traits to play left tackle. "He's in the top 10, 15 easy if he comes out," a scout said. Marqise Lee, WR, USC Dec. 22: Scout says Lee a top-10 lock It could be two weeks before Lee makes a decision about the 2014 NFL Draft, but one scout doesn't think he'll be available for long if he enters the draft. "Very good speed," the scout told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel of Lee. "He was injured a lot this year and didn't have quite the numbers you're looking for, but he's a top-10 pick." Jarvis Landry, Odell Beckham Jr., Ego Ferguson, Anthony Johnson and La'El Collins, LSU Dec. 22: Five LSU juniors reportedly leaning toward early entry Landry, Beckham,Ferguson, Johnson and Collins are all leaning toward declaring themselves eligible for the 2014 NFL Draft, according to a Yahoo Sports report. Where wide receivers Landry and Beckham are concerned, that's nothing new. But it is the first indication that the NFL is more than just a serious consideration for defensive tackles Johnson and Ferguson, and Collins, a left tackle who might merit a first-round evaluation, according to NFL Media analyst Bucky Brooks. Carl Bradford, LB, Arizona State Dec. 21: Bradford might go pro with second-round grade Bradford has already graduated and said he would make his draft decision after the Sun Devils play in the Dec. 30 Holiday Bowl. Third in the Pac-12 with 18 tackles for loss, Bradford said he would consider leaving for the draft if he receives a draft grade in the first or second round. Jerome Smith, RB, Syracuse Dec. 21: Smith intends to enter 2014 draft Smith has indicated his intentions to bypass his senior season and enter the 2014 draft, according to Orange coach Scott Shafer. He has rushed for 840 yards and 11 touchdowns this season after totaling 1,176 yards and three touchdowns in 2012. His final game for the Orange will come in next Friday's Texas Bowl against Minnesota. Lache Seastrunk, RB, Baylor Dec. 20: Seastrunk considering draft option Seastrunk, who has rushed for 1,060 yards on just 141 carries so far in 2013, said he has asked for feedback from the NFL Draft Advisory Board about his prospects should he decide to leave school early. He said that he will come to a decision on whether to enter the 2014 NFL Draft after Baylor's Fiesta Bowl matchup vs. Central Florida. Melvin Gordon, RB, Wisconsin Dec. 20: Gordon announces he will return Gordon, a third-year sophomore running back, had been advised by Badgers head coach Gary Andersen to return to school next year, and Friday he announced that he will be back for his junior season, when he is expected to be the feature back and a Heisman contender. Gordon and the Badgers play South Carolina in the Capital One Bowl on Jan. 1. DeVante Parker, WR, Louisville Dec. 20: Parker will turn pro with first-round grade Parker said he will make his draft decision after Louisville plays Miami in the Russell Athletic Bowl on Dec. 28, but his grandfather indicated he would probably return for his senior season unless he receives a draft grade "near the first round." Parker had 46 receptions for 743 yards and 11 touchdowns this season. South Carolina DE Jadeveon Clowney and Texas A&M QB Johnny Manziel Dec. 19: Clowney, Manziel pass on draft-board feedback? NFL Media reporter Albert Breer said Texas A&M QB Johnny Manziel and South Carolina DE Jadeveon Clowney were not among the 158 underclassmen that had filed for feedback from the NFL Draft Advisory Board as of the Dec. 14-15 weekend. If they don't file, it's possible they have decided they didn't need the feedback to make a draft decision. Michael Bennett, DT, Ohio State Dec. 19: Bennett expected to return for senior season Bennett blossomed during the 2013 season, so much so that some expected him to declare his intention to enter the 2014 NFL Draft. However, Bennett told reporters that he did not seek input from the NFL Draft Advisory Board, which has observers believing he intends to return to Ohio State next season. Cyrus Kouandjio, OT, and Jeoffrey Pagan, DE, Alabama Dec. 19: Kouandjio, Pagan considering draft options Pagan, who was Alabama's third-most productive defensive lineman in 2013, said he will make a decision regarding his future after the team's bowl game vs. Oklahoma. Kouandjio said he is totally focused on the bowl game and will consider the NFL draft option after facing the Sooners. Marcus Mariota, QB, Oregon Dec. 18: Would draft grade lead Mariota to reconsider decision? Mariota announced that he will return to the Ducks next season on Dec. 3, but a CBSSports.com report says he has received feedback from the NFL Draft Advisory Board since then. Will the feedback lead him to reconsider his decision? The report says the advisory board likely gave him a top-15 designation. Braxton Miller, QB, Ohio State Dec. 18: Miller says he's ready for NFL The Buckeyes' starting quarterback is waiting until after the Orange Bowl to make a decision about the 2014 draft, but he told reporters that he think he's ready to play at the next level. De'Anthony Thomas, RB, Oregon Dec. 18: Thomas says he'll make draft decision on his own Thomas says he's made a lot of great decisions in his life, and therefore he will decide on his own -- with a little input from the Draft Advisory Board -- whether he will enter the 2014 NFL Draft. Shilique Calhoun, DE, Michigan State Dec. 18: Calhoun says he's committed to Spartans Calhoun, a third-year sophomore who is tied for second in the Big Ten with 7.5 sacks, intends to return for his junior season. "I'm committed to coming back, definitely," Calhoun told reporters at Michigan State's Rose Bowl media day. Za'Darius Smith, DE, Kentucky Dec. 18: Smith returning for senior season Smith put to rest speculation that he might enter the NFL after only one season in the SEC, announcing he would return for his senior season at Kentucky. A junior-college transfer, Smith was one of the most productive pass rushers in the league in 2013 and recorded six sacks. Trey Flowers, DE, Arkansas Dec. 18: Flowers waiting to hear back from Draft Advisory Board Flowers, who led the Razorbacks in tackles for loss with 13.5, including five sacks, five quarterback hurries and a team-best three forced fumbles, is waiting to hear what the NFL Draft Advisory Board has to say before deciding on his future. Adam Muema, RB, San Diego State Dec. 18: Muema tweets he's heading for draft, then deletes it Just one of four San Diego State running backs to post back-to-back 1,000-yard seasons, Muema tweeted that he would enter the NFL draft. Then he deleted the tweet, leaving some question about his intentions. Donte Moncrief, WR, Ole Miss Dec. 18: Moncrief leaving NFL decision up to parents, coach Moncrief, a junior, was asked how he is approaching his decision on whether to turn pro early or return to Ole Miss for his senior season. He said he is going to let his parents and coach Hugh Freeze talk it over, and will go with what they advise him to do. Austin Franklin, WR, New Mexico State Dec. 18: Franklin declares for NFL draft After catching 126 passes in the past two seasons, Franklin has decided to skip his final season of eligibility and declare his intention to enter the 2014 NFL Draft. Vic Hampton, CB, South Carolina Dec. 17: Hampton will go pro with high draft grade Hampton said last month that he intends to forgo his senior season and enter the 2014 NFL Draft, but Tuesday he indicated he would consider returning to school if he receives a draft grade outside of the first two rounds. He is one of three Gamecocks defensive players expected to turn pro, along with defensive end Jadeveon Clowney and defensive tackle Kelcy Quarles. Aaron Lynch, DE, USF Dec. 17: USF says Lynch has made draft decision Lynch, a third-year sophomore, will enter the 2014 NFL Draft, school officials confirmed, after recording a team-high five sacks in 2013. It was his only season with the Bulls after transferring from Notre Dame. Given his rare athletic ability, Lynch figures to be a very intriguing NFL prospect. Damian Swann, DB, Georgia Dec. 17: Swann returning for senior season Swann says that he did not play as well as he wanted in 2013, and will return to Georgia in 2014 for his senior season in an effort to improve his draft stock. He says he wants to be a first- or second-round pick eventually, and knows his performance as a junior would not have resulted in that. Devin Gardner, QB, Michigan Dec. 17: Hoke changes tune on Gardner Earlier this month, head coach Brady Hoke said Devin Gardner would return for his senior season in 2014, but he wouldn't even say if Gardner had applied for feedback from the NFL Draft Advisory Board when asked about the topic Dec. 16. Vic Beasley, DE, Clemson Dec. 16: Beasley leaning toward entering draft Beasley (6-foot-2, 235 pounds) said Monday that he will make his draft decision after Clemson's Orange Bowl matchup against Ohio State, but said he is leaning toward going pro in 2014. Beasley has already submitted his paperwork to the NFL Draft Advisory Board. Earlier this season, Tigers head coach Dabo Swinney made it clear he thinks an early entry for Beasley would be a bad decision. Jonathan Dowling, S, Western Kentucky Dec. 15: Dowling says he will enter draft Dowling, a two-time first-team All-Sun Belt selection, has announced via Twitter that he will enter the NFL draft, and he should prove to be an intriguing prospect. Dowling (6-foot-3, 198 pounds) was a two-year starter for the Hilltoppers after transferring from Florida. Kyshoen Jarrett, S, and Luther Maddy, DT, Virginia Tech Dec. 15: Hokie duo exploring draft options Virginia Tech coach Frank Beamer said that Jarrett -- a junior strong safety -- has submitted paperwork to the NFL Draft Advisory Board and he believes Maddy -- a junior defensive tackle -- has done the same. Both were third-team All-ACC picks this season. Brandon Coleman, WR, Rutgers Dec. 14: Coleman to enter 2014 NFL Draft Coleman, a redshirt junior, announced Saturday that he intends to enter the 2014 draft after a disappointing season in which his receptions, receiving yards and touchdowns all declined. Coleman had knee surgery in the offseason but said the injury wasn't to blame for his drop in production. Bud Dupree, DE, Kentucky Dec. 13: Dupree returning for senior season Dupree announced via Twitter on Friday that he would return for his final season at Kentucky instead of leaving for the 2014 NFL Draft. Dupree was Kentucky's leader in sacks and tackles for loss in 2013. Xavier Su'a-Filo, OL, UCLA Dec. 13: Su'a-Filo considering NFL option Su'a-Filo is waiting to hear back from the NFL Draft Advisory Board before making a decision whether to leave for the pro game or return to school next season. The fact that he would be a 23-year-old rookie if he came out this year should not hinder his draft stock, says NFL Media analyst Bucky Brooks. Ryan Shazier, LB, Ohio State Dec. 13: Shazier says he's 'leaning toward staying' Shazier, a junior considered one of the nation's top linebackers, said Friday that he is leaning toward returning for his senior season with the Buckeyes, but said he wants to speak with his coaches and family after Ohio State's game against Clemson in the Orange Bowl before making a decision. At 6-2, 230 pounds, Shazier is considered by many to be small for his position, but NFL Media analyst Charles Davis said this week that Shazier's size shouldn't be a problem in the NFL. Sammy Watkins, WR, Clemson Dec. 11: Watkins: 'I probably want to leave' Watkins reiterated Wednesday that he has not made up his mind on whether he would return for his senior season or enter the draft. However, he said, "With the type of season I had, I probably want to leave." Watkins is a finalist for the Biletnikoff award, and Tigers coach Dabo Swinney has already said he thinks Watkins is ready for the NFL. Ka'Deem Carey, RB, Arizona Dec. 11: Carey: First-round grade makes draft hard to pass up Carey, a junior, has requested an evaluation from the NFL Draft Advisory Board and said it would be hard for him to pass on the 2014 draft if he were to receive a first- or second-round grade. "Anything after that, I think you have to get your degree," he said. Washington RB Bishop Sankey and TE Austin Seferian-Jenkins Dec. 11: Sankey, Seferian-Jenkins say Petersen won't affect decision Sankey and Seferian-Jenkins have both filed their paperwork with the NFL Draft Advisory Board, and both have said that the hiring of Chris Petersen as the new Washington head coach will not play a role in their draft decision. Said Seferian-Jenkins, "I came to play for the Huskies, not a coach." A.J. Johnson, LB, Tennessee Dec. 11: Vols fan poll: Johnson not ready for NFL A poll at govolsextra.com seconded Vols defensive coordinator John Jancek's opinion that Johnson is not ready to make the jump to the NFL. On Wednesday morning, the poll results showed 75 percent of the fans saying Johnson, the SEC's leading tackler last season, would be better served returning for his senior year. Xavier Grimble, TE, USC Dec. 10:  Grimble likely to return for senior season Grimble said Monday that he is leaning toward bypassing the 2014 draft to return for his redshirt senior season at USC. Grimble was limited by a shoulder injury for most of this season and ranked third on the Trojans with 23 catches for 248 yards and two touchdowns. UCLA QB Brett Hundley and OT Xavier Su'a-Filo Dec. 8: Hundley, Su'a-Filo to seek NFL draft feedback A week after their regular season came to a close, Hundley and Su'a-Filo have decided to ask the NFL to assess their prospects before the underclassmen make a decision on whether to leave UCLA early or come back for another season. Yawin Smallwood, LB, UConn Dec. 7:  Smallwood intends to enter draft Smallwood, a junior who finished the season with 118 tackles, plans to enter the 2014 NFL Draft, UConn football announced on Twitter. Louis Nix III, NT, Notre Dame Dec. 7: Report: Notre Dame's Nix hires an agent Notre Dame Louis Nix NT is expected take this game to the NFL, as he reportedly has hired an agent. Nix was hampered by some injury issues in 2013, which impacted his production when compared to a year ago, but he is still expected to be a hot commodity in the draft, likely coming off the board in the first round. Antonio Richardson, OT, Tennessee Dec. 6: Richardson opts to go pro in 2014 Richardson (6-foot-6, 327 pounds), the top performer on one of the SEC's best offensive lines, announced Friday that he will forgo his senior season at Tennessee and enter the 2014 NFL Draft. Last week, Tennessee offensive line coach Don Mahoney suggested Richardson might be ready to make the transition to the pros. Danny Shelton, DT, Washington Dec. 5: Report: Shelton will not enter 2014 draft Shelton, the 6-foot-1, 327-pound mammoth who has anchored the Huskies' defense the past two seasons, will return to school for his senior season, RealDawg.com reported. Shelton has been described as a "prototypical nose tackle" by NFL Media analyst Charles Davis. Tre Mason, RB, Auburn Dec. 4: Mason undecided on 2014 draft Auburn's star junior running back could capitalize off his career season by making the leap to the NFL in 2014, but he's not sure that is what he will do. Mason said the NFL crosses his mind. He plans to hold off on making a decision until after the season, though. Bryce Petty, QB, Baylor Dec. 2: Petty will return for senior season Petty said he will "definitely be back" next year after a junior season in which he made a run at the Heisman Trophy and put Baylor in the discussion for the BCS championship game. He has passed for 3,557 yards with 28 touchdowns and two interceptions and also rushed for 11 touchdowns heading into the regular-season finale vs. Texas. Loucheiz Purifoy, CB, Florida Dec. 2: Muschamp supports Purifoy's draft decision Gators head coach Will Muschamp said he is "100 percent supportive" of Purifoy's decision to pass on his senior season and enter the 2014 draft. Purifoy won't be leaving without questions, however, after a shaky season that saw his numbers dip and his status as a shutdown corner questioned during the Gators' 4-8 season. Paul Richardson, WR, Colorado Dec. 2: Richardon will declare for 2014 draft Richardson is ready to announce that he will turn pro, according to an ESPN report, after a junior season in which he caught 79 passes for 1,289 yards and 10 touchdowns. He has the backing of Buffs head coach Mike MacIntyre, who has said he thinks Richardson is  ready for the NFL.  Isaiah Crowell, RB, Alabama State Nov. 28: Ex-Georgia RB leaving school early Crowell will forego his final year of college eligibility to declare for the NFL draft, ASU coach Reggie Barlow said. "We've talked about it. Honestly, when he came here that was one of the things that we talked about when he arrived that he would be here two years and that would be his goal," said Barlow, a former Jacksonville Jaguars wide receiver. Ameer Abdullah, RB, Nebraska Nov. 26: Abdullah not thinking about "really big jump" to NFL Nebraska junior running back Ameer Abdullah, the Big Ten's leading rusher, says that he hasn't given thought to whether this week's game vs. Iowa will be his last in college, noting that going pro would be a "really big jump." Alfred Blue, RB, LSU Nov. 25: Report: Blue might leave for NFL Despite being granted a fifth year of eligibility, RB Alfred Blue might skip his senior season and enter the 2014 draft, according to nola.com. The school said Blue, who has backed up Jeremy Hill the last two seasons, will participate in LSU's Senior Day festivities before the Tigers' final regular-season game Friday vs. Arkansas. Chris Boyd, WR, Vanderbilt Nov. 25: Boyd discusses early NFL draft entry Boyd, who was dismissed from the team earlier this year for after-the-fact involvement in an alleged rape perpetrated by four other Commodores football players, told NFL.com that he has decided to make an early jump to the NFL rather than transferring to another school. Eric Ebron, TE, North Carolina Nov. 25: UNC coach says Ebron leaving for NFL draft North Carolina coach Larry Fedora announced Monday that tight end Eric Ebron intends to enter the 2014 NFL Draft. With an "illegal" blend of size and speed, as Ebron described his physical attributes earlier this season, the junior has a shot to be the first tight end selected. South Carolina DE Jadeveon Clowney and DT Kelcy Quarles Nov. 25: Spurrier hints at intentions of Clowney, Quarles While Clowney has offered little in the way of his plans for 2014, South Carolina coach Steve Spurrier indicated he's anticipating watching the star DE, as well as Quarles, enter the draft. Spurrier he expects both juniors to " go out with the seniors" on South Carolina's Nov. 30 Senior Day, a sign that it will be the last home game for them. South Carolina DL Kelcy Quarles and CB Victor Hampton Nov. 23: Quarles wavering as Hampton mulls draft decision Quarles' father has said this season will be his son's last with the Gamecocks. Kelcy Quarles isn't so sure he's ready to make the leap, though. Quarles acknowledged he's thinking about declaring for the draft after the season, but has yet to make up his mind. Hampton said he, too, is considering leaving South Carolina a season early, but isn't ready to announce a final decision. Johnny Manziel, QB, Texas A&M Nov. 22: Sumlin reveals timeline for Manziel's for draft decision Manziel will announce whether or not he's turning pro before the Aggies' bowl game, Texas A&M head coach Kevin Sumlin told ESPN Radio's "SVP and Russillo" show. Signs are pointing to Manziel entering the draft, but Sumlin said he hasn't had a conversation with Manziel about that subject. Bradley Roby, CB, Ohio State Nov. 20: Roby will turn pro after season, Meyer says Roby will be among the Buckeyes' Senior Day honorees this weekend, when Ohio States faces Indiana, according to head coach Urban Meyer, adding that the junior will turn enter the 2014 draft. Widely considered one of the nation's top cornerbacks before the season, Roby has struggled at times this year and has seen his draft stock fall. He has eight interceptions and 32 pass breakups in three seasons. Louis Nix III, DT, Notre Dame Nov. 20: Nix 'not sure' if he'll return for 2014 season Nix redshirted as a true freshman, and though Notre Dame lists him as a senior, he has one more season of eligibility remaining. "If you guys had the opportunity, would you come back to Notre Dame?" Nix asked of reporters this week, according to IrishIllustrated.com. " ... It's something to think about right now. I'm not sure, to be honest. It's something to consider. We've got a lot of good guys coming back." La'el Collins, OT, LSU Nov. 20: Miles: Collins 'just scratching surface' of talent Collins hasn't even yet logged a full season as a starting left tackle, but the Tigers' junior has vast potential as a pro, LSU coach Les Miles indicated. "I think he's a big, strong, very capable tackle. I think he's just scratching the surface of how good he's going to be. I would expect that he is a guy that will play for a number of years after his college career," Miles said. Collins has yet to comment on whether he is considering early draft entry. Jeremy Hill and Kenny Hilliard, RBs, LSU Nov. 20: LSU could lose two running backs to draft Hill is likely to turn pro after the season, according to a report in The Times-Picayune on the extended eligibility of two other members of the Tigers' offensive backfield. The report also suggests that little-used junior running back Kenny Hilliard, the nephew of former LSU and New Orleans Saints running back Dalton Hilliard, might turn pro as well. Paul Richardson, WR, Colorado Nov. 20: Coach: Richardson has NFL ability Colorado head coach Mike MacIntyre hinted that Saturday's game against USC could be Richardson's last home game, saying he thinks Richardson "definitely" has the skills to play at the next level. A redshirt junior, Richardson has bounced back nicely after missing all of 2012 with a torn ACL, ranking fourth in the FBS with 120 receiving yards per game, but his slight frame (6-1, 170 pounds) is a concern for many scouts. Cedric Ogbuehi, OT, Texas A&M Nov. 19: Ogbuehi softens stance on 2014 draft Where Ogbuehi's stance on early draft entry is concerned, hold everything. The standout junior said he would "consider his options" where the NFL draft is concerned, according to the San Antonio News Express. That's a departure from a magazine report from earlier this fall, in which Ogbuehi indicated he would return to Texas A&M for his senior season. Teddy Bridgewater, QB, Louisville Nov. 18: Bridgewater has 'whole new year' to make decision If Bridgewater does intend to declare for the draft after the season, he won't be making that decision known at Louisville's Senior Day. Coach Charlie Strong announced the junior QB will not take part in the team's Nov. 23 Senior Day festivities. Juniors that expect to leave school early are often honored at Senior Day. "We're not going to even talk about him and saying this is going to be his last game," Strong said. "He's still got a whole new year, and he's going to have to make that decision." Donte Moncrief, WR, Ole Miss Nov. 14: Moncrief undecided on draft Moncrief is heating up after a slow start to the season. Will he cap off his junior season with an announcement that he's entering the NFL draft? The star receiver told reporters he will rely on the advice of his head coach, Hugh Freeze, to make that decision. Austin Hill, WR, Arizona Nov. 13: Hill plans to return to school Hill is already thinking about the 2014 college football season, stating his intention to return to school next year. "I'm not done with college yet," Hill told the Tucson Citizen. Dominique Easley, DT, Florida Nov. 10: Easley's rehab focused on preparation for draft Easley will rehabilitate his surgically repaired right knee in Boca Raton, Fla., with a trainer referred to him by former UF teammate and Baltimore Ravens safety Matt Elam, according to FOXSports.com. Easley will work with trainer Tony Villano beginning Dec. 1 in preparation for the NFL draft next spring. Kelcy Quarles, DL, South Carolina Nov. 6: South Carolina DL Kelcy Quarles' father says son will enter 2014 NFL Draft South Carolina junior Kelcy Quarles has been among the most dominant defensive linemen in the SEC this season, and he intends to make 2013 his final year with the Gamecocks. Quarles' father told gogamecocks.com that the South Carolina coaching staff, including Steve Spurrier, already knows his son will declare for the draft after the season. James Wilder, Jr. and Devonta Freeman, RBs, Florida State Nov. 5: Florida State's James Wilder tells recruit he might turn pro A recruit who attended the Florida State-Miami game told 247 Sports that Seminole running back James Wilder Jr. said he and teammate Devonta Freeman might consider leaving school for the NFL after this season. Headlines Latest Indications are Munchak will return to Titans | Coaching tracker Browns interested in Stoops; coach open to NFL leap | Details Reports: Texas hires Louisville's Charlie Strong as head coach Frazier verbally commits to become Buccaneers' coordinator O'Brien lauds Texans' strong roster | QB 'very, very' important NFL to consider reseeding playoffs by record | Wild-card picks Cowher says it's highly unlikely he'll be coaching in near future Vikings will interview Browns coordinator Horton | 'ATL Podcast' Injury roundup: Fisher ruled out for Chiefs | Watch: KC-IND trailer Subscribe More News > Videos 0 / 0 More Videos > Photos 0 / 0 More Photos > NFL Shop 0 / 0 More Gear > Spotlight Opponents set for 2014 NFL season Bolts work overtime for playoff spot Draft needs for every NFL team Playoff schedule Rex lives! The evolution of the NFL Back to Top Information Contact Us FAQ | Rule Book Public Relations Jobs: League | Team Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Initiatives NFL Rush Play 60 In the Community NFL Auction Media Info NFL Communications Media Kit Media Guides Player Services NFL Health & Safety NFL Player Care Player Engagement More NFL Sites NFL Youth Tackle USA Football NFL International NFL On Location NFL Extra Points   Pro Football Hall of Fame NFL Ticket Exchange NFL Shop Licensing © 2013 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League. NFL footage © NFL Productions LLC.   Bills Dolphins Patriots Jets Ravens Bengals Browns Steelers Texans Colts Jaguars Titans Broncos Chiefs Raiders Chargers Cowboys Giants Eagles Redskins Bears Lions Packers Vikings Falcons Panthers Saints Buccaneers Cardinals Rams 49ers Seahawks © 2014 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League. NFL footage © NFL Productions LLC. PRIVACY POLICY | Terms & Conditions NFL News CONTENT 15 
