Do you care where the money comes from? - Jeffrey Young - The Atlantic
     Continue to the TheAtlantic.com Advertisement The Atlantic Subscribe Now Follow Us Politics Top Stories The Latest GOP Efforts to Gum Up Obamacare McCain Calls for NSA Chief's Head, Backs Down Immediately Christie-Martinez: Is This Your 2016 Republican Ticket? Just Use the Damned Word. Filibuster Richard Cohen in Context Richard Cohen, Meet Helen Thomas Business Top Stories Being a Young Adult Is a Financial Nightmare The Workforce Is Even More Divided by Race Than You Think How Terrible Is Spirit Airlines, Really? Why Is Childcare Getting So Expensive? What Medium Will the Digital Revolution Destroy Next? Everything You Need to Know About Obamacare and 'Death Spirals' Sponsor Content From Clicks to Bricks: A pair of e-commerce entrepreneurs buck convention and go analog. Tech Top Stories The Carl Sagan of Our Time Reprises the 'Pale Blue Dot' Photo of Earth XKCD Is Amazing, but Its Latest Comic Is Wrong The Absurd Beauty of Creating Musical Turnstiles in NYC's Subway How a Sewing Machine Works, Explained in a GIF Hurray! Google Has Solved The Mystery of the Noisy Tab Twitter Might Have Been Named 'Friendstalker' Special Report: How Breakthroughs Happen Entertainment Top Stories Is Lily Allen's New Video Really That Progressive? 'We Just Sat and Held Each Other': Watching Your Life Story Onstage The Hunger Games' Perfect/Terrible Tears for Fears Cover One Way to Keep Writing: 'Remember Death' Arcade Fire Exploited Haiti, and Almost No One Noticed The Immortal Soul of the Drum Machine Sponsor Content From Eisenhower to Elvis: 10 Icons Whose Lives Shaped History Sponsor Content From MLK to Maria Callas: 10 Icons Whose Lives Shaped History Sponsor Content From Tiger Woods to Winston Churchill: 10 Icons Whose Lives Shaped History Health Top Stories Caffeine 'Addiction': A Tortured Love Huh Means the Same Thing in Every Language Letting Medical Students Run the Clinic Caffeine 'Addiction': A Tortured Love Study: Morning People Win How the Brain Creates Personality: A New Theory Special Report: Building a Better Human Sponsor Content Found in Translation: The Journey of Chef Alex Stupak Education Top Stories The Two-Year Law Degree: A Great Idea That Will Never Come to Be 'I Don’t Know Anything': Why M. Night Shyamalan Wrote a Book on Education Letting Medical Students Run the Clinic The Stereotypes About Math That Hold Americans Back How Getting Into College Became Such a Long, Frenzied, Competitive Process Good Teachers Embrace Their Students' Cultural Backgrounds Sponsor Content A New National Education Imperative Sponsor Content Securing Economic Strength Through Education Sponsor Content The Innovators Who Are Transforming U.S. Education Sexes Top Stories Women and Beer: A 4,500-Year History Is Coming Full Circle 23% of Americans Would Prefer a Female Boss (and That's a Record High) The Psychology of Giant Princess Eyes Sorry, Marriage Is a 'Luxury Good' Lake Bell on Filmmaking, Push-Up Bras, and Feminism 'Advice to a Younger Me': Female Leaders on Starting Out National Top Stories Why Aren't There More Black Federal Judges in Alabama, Florida, and Georgia? Help Veterans by Taking Them Off the Pedestal Connecting With My Father's Wartime Loss, 70 Years Later The Last Stand of the JFK Truthers Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, Defender of the Constitution Meet the Pope's New BFF Sponsor Content Aaron Koblin: Making Data Beautiful Sponsor Content Leo Villareal: Making the Bay Bridge His Canvas Sponsor Content Motion-Controlled Computing: Science-Fiction No More Global Top Stories How Online Mapmakers Are Helping the Red Cross Save Lives in the Philippines Meet the Gadget-Wielding Techies Who Are Getting the Philippines Back Online Huh Means the Same Thing in Every Language Liberia's Top Presidential Escort Busted for Smuggling Pot With Official Jeep The Suffering of the Philippines: 2 Charities to Consider Social Networking by Tribe Sponsor Content How Can U.S. Investors Capitalize on the Shifting Global Landscape? Sponsor Content What Does the U.S. Energy Revolution Mean for Investors? Sponsor Content Active vs. Passive Investing: Which is the Best Approach? China Top Stories China’s Intensifying Suppression of Foreign Journalism How Xi Jinping Failed at China’s Big Political Meeting China’s Brash Young Actors Swap Ideology for a Chance at Fame The Glitz and Glamour of the Scrap-Metal Trade Hong Kong's Eerie, Beautiful Hillside Cemeteries This Latest Chinese Censorship News Is Important, and Bad Video Top Stories The Dos and Don'ts of Skateboarding: A 1970s Guide The Man Behind Some of the Greatest Songs of All Time Watch a 98-Year-Old Man Create Beautiful Images in Microsoft Paint Why Messing With People Is the Best Job in the World Peek Into Late 1960s Drug Culture The Rise of the Bicycle in the 21st Century Magazine In This Month's Issue The 50 Greatest Breakthroughs Since the Wheel Who Will Tomorrow's Historians Consider Today's Greatest Inventors? The Amazon Mystery The Passion of Flannery O’Connor Why We Live 40 Years Longer Today Than We Did in 1880 Fraud Alert Regarding The Atlantic Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Editions Subscribe Newsletters E-books Apps Longreads In Focus Events Just In Just Use the Damned Word. Filibuster How Getting Into College Got So Hard By Julia Ryan One Way to Keep Writing: 'Remember Death' By Joe Fassler The Devastation of Super-Typhoon Haiyan By Alan Taylor Sponsor Content Icons: From Eisenhower to Elvis Do you care where the money comes from? Jeffrey Young Feb 20 2009, 9:07 AM ET Tweet More Email Print Physicians already draw a huge portion of their income from government programs. Should it matter if more were to come from the federal coffers under President Obama's health reform plan? Rex Morgan, M.D., has some thoughts on the matter. Not to drain the humor out of this before you have a chance to watch it, but this comedy short provokes some interesting questions. (From yourgirlfriend.org) Now, setting aside Dr. Morgan's cruel violation of basic medical ethics (and the fact that a lot of people wouldn't mind giving what-for to that sanctimonious Mark Trail), does he have a point? Why would a doctor care whether the government, an insurance company, or a patient paid the bill as long as somebody paid it? It makes a sort of intuitive sense to figure that any program that insures the 47 million or so people who currently lack coverage would drive revenue to physicians and everybody else who sells health care products and services. That's a pretty big unserved (or underserved) market. For evidence to support that premise, take a look at how much money has been made selling drugs to Medicare beneficiaries since the program started covering outpatient prescription medicines in 2006. Obviously, it's not so simple. Despite the fact that medical providers are pratically as dependent on federal dollars as defense contractors, they're not typically thrilled with the pay rates set by Medicare, Medicaid, and other government programs. Doctors are in a particularly tough pickle, a subject I explored more fully in a recent post. Granted, not one health care lobbyist has ever declared to me that Medicare pays them exactly the right amount (let alone too much) but they are sort of at the mercy of statutory formulas and rob-Peter-to-pay-Paul budgetary fights every year that don't always connect with the reality of their practice costs. Moreover, health insurers tend to use Medicare's rates as the basis for what they pay, so the government has an indirect effect on the private health care market. That would undoubtedly be true for any new government programs created under health reform. [Disclosure: A college classmate of mine belongs to the comedy troupe that produced the above video.] Jeffrey Young is a staff writer at The Hill. Jump to comments Tweet Email Print Presented by Jeffrey Young Jeffrey Young is a staff writer at The Hill, the newspaper for and about Congress, where he covers health care, lobbying, politics, and the intersection thereof for the "Business & Lobbying" section. He's been covering health policy in Washington for a decade and still hasn't heard that one good idea that will fix everything. Email Jeffrey at jeffrey.young.atlanticbusiness@gmail.com All Posts Email Try 2 Free Issues! Go Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Edition Get Today's Top Stories in Your Inbox (preview) Email Address The Two-Year Law Degree: A Great Idea That Will Never Come to Be Matt Barnum Nov 12, 2013 What Medium Will the Digital Revolution Destroy Next? Derek Thompson Nov 12, 2013 Ask Washington Anything Kasia Cieplak-Mayr von Baldegg Nov 11, 2013 A Heartbreaking Paragraph of Breathtaking Prejudice Ta-Nehisi Coates Nov 12, 2013 Video More Video Caffeine 'Addiction': A Tortured Love Tweet What the U.S. Doesn't Get About Math The U.S. Postal Service: Amazon vs. Christianity How the Brain Creates Personality: A New Theory How Online Mapmakers Are Helping the Red Cross Save Lives in the Philippines ‹ › Elsewhere on the web Sponsored Links Join the Discussion After you comment, click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register. blog comments powered by Disqus Close Video What Combat Feels Like An animated film based on a true story by Iraq veteran Colby Buzzell Video Turning Bacon Fat Into Bombs A cartoon explains how keeping your kitchen grease can help win the war. Video A 5'5" Basketball Player Learns to Dunk One of the shortest men in the world capable of dunking a basketball. Video Advice to a Younger Me: Michelle Peluso The CEO of Gilt reflects on leadership and work-life balance Video Surfers Battle Billionaire for the Beach A documentary goes inside the ongoing fight for coastal access. Video From Stoop Sales to Chief Digital Officer of NYC Rachel Haot reflects on her experiences founding a startup Video Searching for Jesus on a Motorcycle “I believe Jesus rides a Harley, there’s no doubt about it.” Video Career Advice From the CEO of DreamWorks Stacey Snider describes how she worked her way up from the mailroom Video The Highs (and Lows) of Starting Your Own Company Ayah Bdeir describes how she created littleBits Video Lake Bell on Filmmaking, Push-Up Bras, and Feminism The writer, director, and actress shares stories from her career.  Video The Rise of the Bicycle in the 21st Century Investigating solutions to increasing automobile traffic. Video Peek Into Late 1960s Drug Culture "I feel it's easier to get acid or speed than it is to buy bubblegum at a store, because (at a store) you have to wait in line." Video How Calvin and Hobbes Inspired a Generation A film explores the extraordinary influence of Bill Watterson's creation. Video A 98-Year-Old Man With a Gift for Microsoft Paint A short documentary showcases the art of Hal Lasko. Video The Man Behind Some of the Greatest Songs The legendary songwriter Doc Pomus. Video The Dos and Don'ts of Skateboarding A 1970s archival film explains how to cruise the streets safely. Writers Up James Fallows Just Use the Damned Word. Filibuster Nov 12, 2013 Ta-Nehisi Coates Richard Cohen in Context Nov 12, 2013 Robinson Meyer XKCD Is Amazing, but Its Latest Comic Is Wrong Nov 12, 2013 Garance Franke-Ruta Richard Cohen, Meet Helen Thomas Nov 12, 2013 Alexis C. Madrigal The Carl Sagan of Our Time Reprises the 'Pale Blue Dot' Photo of Earth Nov 12, 2013 Jordan Weissmann Why Is Childcare Getting So Expensive? Nov 12, 2013 Olga Khazan Huh Means the Same Thing in Every Language Nov 12, 2013 Spencer Kornhaber The Hunger Games' Perfect/Terrible Tears for Fears Cover Nov 12, 2013 Matt Schiavenza China’s Intensifying Suppression of Foreign Journalism Nov 12, 2013 Rebecca J. Rosen How a Sewing Machine Works, Explained in a GIF Nov 12, 2013 Derek Thompson What Medium Will the Digital Revolution Destroy Next? Nov 12, 2013 Megan Garber Twitter Might Have Been Named 'Friendstalker' Nov 12, 2013 Matthew O'Brien Everything You Need to Know About Obamacare and 'Death Spirals' Nov 12, 2013 James Hamblin Caffeine 'Addiction': A Tortured Love Nov 12, 2013 Andrew Cohen Why Aren't There More Black Federal Judges in Alabama, Florida, and Georgia? Nov 12, 2013 Conor Friedersdorf John McCain Calls on NSA Director to Resign, Backs Down Immediately Nov 12, 2013 Julie Beck Study: Morning People Win Nov 12, 2013 Kasia Cieplak-Mayr von Baldegg Ask Washington Anything Nov 11, 2013 David A. Graham Chris Christie-Susana Martinez: Is This Your 2016 Republican Ticket? Nov 11, 2013 Corby Kummer The Trans-Fat Ban as a Model of Slow Health Policy Nov 8, 2013 Ashley Fetters Why You Shouldn't Judge Lance Armstrong (and Why You Should) Nov 8, 2013 Jennie Rothenberg Gritz Green: R.E.M.'s Greatest Album Nov 8, 2013 Christopher Orr The Lightweight Charm of Thor: The Dark World Nov 8, 2013 Emma Green Convincing Millennials to 'Marry a Nice Jewish Boy' Nov 7, 2013 Down More in Business Being a Young Adult Is a Financial Nightmare Jordan Weissmann The Workforce Is Even More Divided by Race Than You Think Derek Thompson How Terrible Is Spirit Airlines, Really? Derek Thompson In Focus Super Typhoon Haiyan Devastates the Philippines Most Popular 1 How the Brain Creates Personality: A New Theory 2 The Stereotypes About Math That Hold Americans Back 3 How a Sewing Machine Works, Explained in a GIF 4 Richard Cohen in Context 5 XKCD Is Amazing, but Its Latest Comic Is Wrong 6 Super Typhoon Haiyan Devastates the Philippines 7 Arcade Fire Exploited Haiti, and Almost No One Noticed 8 Why Can't We All Just Get Along? The Uncertain Biological Basis of Morality 9 Richard Cohen on Black-White Marriage 10 The 50 Greatest Breakthroughs Since the Wheel Just In Just Use the Damned Word. Filibuster James Fallows Richard Cohen in Context Ta-Nehisi Coates XKCD Is Amazing, but Its Latest Comic Is Wrong Robinson Meyer ATLANTIC MEDIA Atlantic Wire Johnson & Johnson Reaches $4 Billion Settlement Over Hip Implants U.S. Airways and American Airlines Are Merging Caroline Kennedy Sworn In as Ambassador to Japan More from Atlantic Wire Atlantic Cities Some People Don't Want to Say Goodbye to the Washington Monument Scaffolding Why America Has a Mass Incarceration Problem, While Germany and the Netherlands Don't The Fight to Save a Detroit-Area Urban Farm More from Atlantic Cities Quartz 2.5 million people in the Philippines will need food assistance for at least the next six months Proof that Americans really are cutting the cable TV cord Microsoft caves in and cancels its questionable employee-ranking system More from Quartz National Journal Landrieu Lobbies Hard for Keystone XL Graham Presses for Administration's Iran Endgame Why Would Anyone Want to Be the Next Al Gore? More from National Journal Longreads What George Clooney Smells Like, According to Tom Junod 'Am I a Vulture?' Katherine Boo on Reporting and Poverty How to Steal a House More from Longreads Follow The Atlantic App store Facebook Twitter Linkedin Google Plus Tumblr RSS E-Newsletters Today's Top Stories This Week This Month New at In Focus Atlantic Cities 5 Best Columns Information FAQ Subscribe Help Masthead Store Merchandise Jobs Privacy Site Map Terms and Conditions Advertise Advertising Guidelines Press Contact Us Special Reports Atlantic Scene Ebook Events Atlantic Media Subscribe Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price STATE AK AL AR AZ CA CO CT DC DE FL GA HI IA ID IL IN KS KY LA MA MD ME MI MN MO MS MT NC ND NE NH NJ NM NV NY OH OK OR PA RI SC SD TN TX UT VA VT WA WI WV WY YT Next ► Fraud alert regarding The Atlantic Copyright © 2013 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. CDN powered by Edgecast Networks. Insights powered by Parsely . Powered by the Parse.ly Publisher Platform (P3). 
