Maybe John Thain Wasn't the (Most) Bad Guy After All - Derek Thompson - The Atlantic
     Continue to the TheAtlantic.com Advertisement The Atlantic Subscribe Now Follow Us Politics Top Stories Why We're Marching Across N.H. to Honor Aaron Swartz Why Do the Poor and Minorities Vote Less? How the NSA Would Defend Chris Christie Why 'Let Them Smoke Pot' Is Not an Economic Strategy for Millennials How to Solve America's Democracy and Poverty Crisis The NeverEnding Sorry: Late-Night Comedy Roundup Business Top Stories If You Really Care About Ending Poverty, Stop Talking About Inequality Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Why America's Doctor Shortage Might Mean Trouble for Obamacare Everything You Need to Know About the Healthcare Slowdown The Company That Botched Obamacare's Website Is Getting Replaced The 3 Weirdest Things About the Weirdest Jobs Report Ever Tech Top Stories Court Rules That Yelp Must Unmask the Identities of Seven Anonymous Reviewers With Great Computing Power Comes Great Surveillance The Time I Got Stranded in Antarctica Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition The Elegance of Beowulf in 100 Tweets The Glorious Feeling of Fixing Something Yourself Entertainment Top Stories Cam Newton Could Become a Legend—If He Wins Now Lone Survivor: Every War Movie is a Pro-War Movie Marian Bantjes, the Michelangelo of Decorative Lettering Accordions: So Hot Right Now Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? How Masterpiece Stays Timeless Health Top Stories Impact Factor and the Future of Medical Journals A Lesser-Known Dementia That Steals Personality Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less Education Top Stories Tech's Gender and Race Gap Starts in High School How to Discipline Students Without Turning School Into a Prison 'You Have to Know History to Actually Teach It' When Computers Are Co-Teachers Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain What's Ahead for Education in 2014 Sexes Top Stories Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should The Rise and Fall—and Rise—of Facial Hair The U.S. Economy Does Not Value Caregivers How People in Muslim Countries Think Women Should Dress The Poverty Line Was Designed Assuming Every Family Had a Housewife Who Was a 'Skillful Cook' Does Prince Charming Really Need to Be Reinvented? National Top Stories The Black Students Who Wouldn't Leave the Lunch Counter The Appalling Story of South Carolina's Prisons Executed Against the Jury's Judgment Robert Pastor When a Boy You Know Goes Missing 'The Most Expensive Sheriff in America' Is Getting More Expensive Special Report: A User's Guide to 2014 Global Top Stories Retracing Mao Zedong's Long March—by Motorcycle Iceland's Newest Beer Ingredient: Whale Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries How People in Muslim Countries Think Women Should Dress Gates, Obama, and Ducking Difficult Choices in the Middle East The Wedding That a U.S. Drone Strike Turned Into a Funeral Video Top Stories Sierra Leone's Fight for Gender Equality Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone 'The Mean Dean Drumming Machine' The Life of a Los Angeles Homicide Detective Zen and the Art of Woodworking Inside a Workshop for Custom-Built Motorcycles Magazine In This Month's Issue Surviving Anxiety Daddy Track: The Case for Paternity Leave Jesse Willms, the Dark Lord of the Internet The Elmore Leonard Paradox A Brief History of the Mile High Club Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Editions Subscribe Newsletters Books Apps Longreads In Focus Events Just In Everything You Need to Know About the Healthcare Slowdown The Elegance of Beowulf in 100 Tweets By Alexis C. Madrigal The Appalling Story of South Carolina's Prisons By Andrew Cohen What Makes a Good History Teacher? By David Cutler Sponsor Content Living Longer, Aging Less Maybe John Thain Wasn't the (Most) Bad Guy After All Derek Thompson Apr 27 2009, 11:34 AM ET Tweet More Email Print Does John Thain -- the former head of Merrill Lynch who is now one of the richest, most reviled unemployed people in the country -- deserve our pity?  And is Bank of America CEO Ken Lewis blatantly lying to shareholders? Let's review the case: The common news story goes like this: Thain was brought in 14 months earlier from the NYSE to rescue Merrill Lynch from its bleeding balance sheet. But in the late summer of 2008, it became increasingly clear that the company didn't have the financial security to stand on its own legs, and Bank of America agreed to buy it up. In January, it was revealed that Merrill had paid out billions of dollars in bonuses and managed to produce another $15 billion loss for the quarter. The news drove BofA CEO Ken Lewis up the wall, and he forced Thain to resign. As Thain told the WSJ, Lewis' reaction to the Merrill bonuses is phony, because he had known about them for quite a while. I'm not really interested in the he-said/he-said of Merrill's bonuses. I'm more interested in Lewis' reaction to Merrill's quarterly losses. Two things make Lewis' shock and rage at Merrill's losses smell fishy: what we knew then and what we know now. What we knew then was that BofA had recently conducted its own due diligence stress test of Merrill's assets, and it doesn't speak very highly of the company's risk managers that they somehow miscalcuated Merrill's eventual writedown by a matter of billions that was so unacceptible, it positively demanded the head of the company to resign. What we know now is that Lewis was aware of some kind of enormous impending losses from Merrill's balance sheet. That's why he expressed serious reservations to the Feds last summer about taking on its risk, and it's also why the feds -- then Treasury Sec. Hank Paulson and Fed Chair Ben Bernanke in particular -- opened Lewis' mouth, held his nose, and forced him to swallow the bitter swill of Merrill's assets in September. So here's the time line. BofA shareholders voted to approve the merger with Merrill on December 5. Bank of America reported Merrill's loss of $15.84 billion in the fourth quarter on January 16. But Lewis had known that Merrill's asset sheet was poisonous four months earlier in September, when Paulson and Bernanke forced it through, but he "wasn't supposed to talk about it," or something, according to Lewis' testimony. Does that sequence seems extremely fishy to anybody else? In this light, it's hard to see Lewis' rage and Thain's resignation as anything more than an act to fool shareholders into viewing Lewis as an innocent lamb caught in John Thain's web of expensive lies. The simplest retelling of the story would go like this: Lewis was on the fence about acquiring Merrill because he wanted to expand BofA but he was also extremely nervous about Merrill's balance sheet. The Feds sweetened the deal and talked him off the fence, and Lewis -- who knew about the crap sandwich of assets waiting to emerge in January -- had the board vote on the merger in December. When Merrill's loss emerged even worse than all sides expected, Lewis rushed to save face by forcing out Thain. This retelling might be completely wrong. Either way, shareholders should be very curious. Jump to comments Tweet Email Print Presented by Derek Thompson is a senior editor at The Atlantic, where he oversees the Business Channel. More Thompson has written for Slate, BusinessWeek, and the Daily Beast. He has also appeared as a guest on radio and television networks, including NPR, the BBC, CNBC, and MSNBC. All Posts RSS Follow @dkthomp Try 2 Free Issues! Go Subscribe Renew Give a Gift Digital Edition Get Today's Top Stories in Your Inbox (preview) Email Address What Makes a Great History Teacher? David Cutler Jan 10, 2014 Every War Movie Is a Pro-War Movie Calum Marsh Jan 10, 2014 Computers Make Great Assistant Teachers Margaret Ramirez Jan 10, 2014 Retracing Mao Zedong’s Long March on a Motorcycyle Adam Century Jan 10, 2014 Video More Video The Life of a Los Angeles Homicide Detective Tweet What Prison Officials in South Carolina Did to Mentally Ill Inmates Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should The Joy of Fixing Something Yourself Stuck: Why Americans Aren't Moving Anymore ‹ › Elsewhere on the web Sponsored Links Join the Discussion After you comment, click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be asked to log in or register. blog comments powered by Disqus Close Video The NeverEnding Sorry Highlights from late-night comedy Writers Up Matthew O'Brien Everything You Need to Know About the Healthcare Slowdown Jan 10, 2014 James Hamblin Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition Jan 10, 2014 Eleanor Barkhorn Tech's Gender and Race Gap Starts in High School Jan 10, 2014 Andrew Cohen The Black Students Who Wouldn't Leave the Lunch Counter Jan 10, 2014 Jordan Weissmann The Company That Botched Obamacare's Website Is Getting Replaced Jan 10, 2014 Alexis C. Madrigal The Elegance of Beowulf in 100 Tweets Jan 10, 2014 Derek Thompson The 3 Weirdest Things About the Weirdest Jobs Report Ever Jan 10, 2014 Olga Khazan Why American Women Aren't Living as Long as They Should Jan 10, 2014 Julie Beck Where Life Has Meaning: Poor, Religious Countries Jan 10, 2014 Rebecca J. Rosen Court Rules That Yelp Must Unmask the Identities of Seven Anonymous Reviewers Jan 10, 2014 Megan Garber Oh, Deer: NASA Rocket Gets Photobombed by Hungry Animals Jan 10, 2014 Conor Friedersdorf How NSA Apologists Exploit State Secrets Jan 10, 2014 James Fallows Robert Pastor Jan 9, 2014 David A. Graham Why Bridgegate Is So Dangerous to Chris Christie's Reputation Jan 9, 2014 Ta-Nehisi Coates Addendum to the Great Public-Intellectual Debate Jan 9, 2014 Robinson Meyer Notice That Flicker? Europe's Lights Are Out-of-Tune With Your Phone Jan 8, 2014 Emma Green How Pretty Little Liars Redeems the Pop-Culture Mean Girl Jan 7, 2014 Molly Ball The Agony of Frank Luntz Jan 6, 2014 Matt Schiavenza Legalizing Marijuana Does Not Mean the U.S. Would Lose Ground to China Jan 5, 2014 Sam Price-Waldman Why a 14-Year-Old Girl Decided to Sail Around the World Alone Jan 3, 2014 Steve Clemons China's Latest Food Scandal: Fox-Tainted Donkey Meat Jan 2, 2014 Kasia Cieplak-Mayr von Baldegg The Most Powerful Images of 2013 Dec 28, 2013 Katherine Wells The Other Darwin Dec 28, 2013 Ashley Fetters The Exhausting Emotional Violence of August: Osage County Dec 25, 2013 Down More in Business If You Really Care About Ending Poverty, Stop Talking About Inequality W. Bradford Wilcox Does the U.S. Economy Need Bubbles to Live? Matthew O'Brien Why America's Doctor Shortage Might Mean Trouble for Obamacare Matthew O'Brien In Focus The Continued Eruptions of Mount Sinabung Most Popular 1 Stuck: Why Americans Stopped Moving to the Richest States 2 When Good People Do Nothing: The Appalling Story of South Carolina's Prisons 3 Study: Reading a Novel Changes Your Brain 4 How Netflix Reverse Engineered Hollywood 5 'You Have to Know History to Actually Teach It' 6 The Electricity-Generating Bicycle Desk That Would Power the World 7 The Glorious Feeling of Fixing Something Yourself 8 This Is Your Brain on Gluten 9 Surviving Anxiety 10 Lone Survivor's Takeaway: Every War Movie Is a Pro-War Movie Just In Everything You Need to Know About the Healthcare Slowdown Matthew O'Brien Cam Newton Could Become an NFL Legend—If He Wins Now Allen Barra Will It Fly? Bicycle Desk Edition James Hamblin ATLANTIC MEDIA The Wire And Now For a Young Kanye West Rapping in 1998 Game of Thrones Releases Five Short Trailers to Promote Longer Trailer The F*cking Inevitable Supercut of F*cks in 'Wolf of Wall Street' More from The Wire Atlantic Cities At This 'Anti-Cafe,' You Pay Just to Sit Around The L.A. Public Library Is About to Start Offering High School Diplomas This Chart Explains Why the Nation Is Riveted By the Chris Christie Scandal More from Atlantic Cities Quartz Dollar stores are now getting too expensive for many Americans Why every gadget you own could soon take voice commands just like Siri Who’s drinking the world’s Scotch whisky More from Quartz National Journal Congress Prodded on Offshore-Drilling Safety Supreme Court Takes Up Another Obamacare-Related Case Supreme Court to Hear Broadcaster Bid to Kill Aereo More from National Journal Longreads Top 5 Longreads of the Week ‘I’m One of the Others Now’: What Life Was Like for a Family in East Germany How One Magazine Shaped Investigative Journalism in America More from Longreads Follow The Atlantic App store Facebook Twitter Linkedin Google Plus Tumblr RSS E-Newsletters Today's Top Stories This Week This Month New at In Focus Atlantic Cities 5 Best Columns Today's News Information FAQ Subscribe Help Masthead Store Emporium Jobs Privacy Site Map Terms and Conditions Advertise Advertising Guidelines Press Contact Us Special Reports Atlantic Scene Ebook Events Atlantic Media Subscribe Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price STATE AK AL AR AZ CA CO CT DC DE FL GA HI IA ID IL IN KS KY LA MA MD ME MI MN MO MS MT NC ND NE NH NJ NM NV NY OH OK OR PA RI SC SD TN TX UT VA VT WA WI WV WY YT Next ► Fraud alert regarding The Atlantic Copyright © 2014 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. CDN powered by Edgecast Networks. Insights powered by Parsely . Powered by the Parse.ly Publisher Platform (P3). 
