From 0 to 60 To World Domination - NYTimes.com
 Try a Digital Subscription campaign: inyt2013_bar1_digi_euro_3LFL3 -- 221762, creative: bar1_digi_euro_3LFL3 -- 353957, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help Home Page Today's Paper Video Most Popular Edition: U.S. / Global Search All NYTimes.com World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos From 0 to 60 To World Domination Published: February 18, 2007 (Page 2 of 9) Press, who is 60, never had an ambition to be an auto executive. When I first met him in his Midtown Manhattan office in October, he told me that after college he took a job working for Ford. ''My family was in retail,'' he said, ''and this was a foray into the manufacturing side to kind of learn what goes on in the industry before I went on and became a car dealer.'' In 1970, his boss at Ford moved to Toyota and encouraged him to join up too. At the time, Toyota sold a few Land Cruisers and was known mainly for one car, the Toyota Corona. It seemed like a poor career move. ''When you're young and your head is full of ideas, you don't let facts get in the way,'' Press said. So he took a flier, gave up his company car (a new Ford Thunderbird) and went to work at Toyota. When he started, the Big Three completely controlled car sales in the United States. The only foreign company of any prominence was Volkswagen, and as Press recalled, Toyota's modest sales were lumped with various tiny carmakers as ''Other.'' Still, soon after he arrived, Press realized he liked the company's intimacy: he could meet face to face with top managers and exert some influence over marketing decisions. And he liked Toyota's obsession with customer satisfaction. When he told me about his first trip to Japan, he seemed to be recounting a religious experience. ''As a young person, you are searching for this level of comfort, you don't know what it is, but you're sort of uncomfortable,'' he said. In Japan, as he put it, he found a home, a place where everything from the politeness of the people to the organization of the factories made sense. On that first trip, at a restaurant one evening, he tried a rich corn soup and asked the waitress for the recipe. She checked with the chef, who explained that there was no recipe; it had been handed down from his mother. The next morning, the waitress came to Press's hotel room: she had found a cookbook with a recipe for the soup. Press, apparently, was still her customer. ''That blew me away,'' he said. It can be simplistic, and often a distortion, to accept a corporate executive as the personification of a corporation, especially one as large and varied as Toyota. Yet Press serves as an apt representative, and not merely because his career arc mirrors the company's ascendancy. Like Toyota, he expresses himself in private with modesty and care, yet in public his speeches are bold, declarative and effervescent. In his office, he has an informal, relaxed presence and exhibits just a hint of an avuncular stoop; yet he loves to race cars and sometimes swims 5,000 meters a day. Press also has a fluency in the company's arcane systems and history. Toyota is as much a philosophy as a business, a patchwork of traditions, apothegms and precepts that don't translate easily into the American vernacular. Some have proved incisive (''Build quality into processes'') and some opaque (''Open the window. It's a big world out there!''). Toyota's overarching principle, Press told me, is ''to enrich society through the building of cars and trucks.'' This phrase should be cause for skepticism, especially coming from a company so adept at marketing and public relations. I lost count of how many times Toyota executives, during the course of my reporting, repeated it and how often I had to keep from recoiling at its hollow peculiarity. And yet, the catch phrase -- to enrich and serve society -- was not intended, at least originally, to function as a P.R. motto. Historically the idea has meant offering car customers reliability and mobility while investing profits in new plants, technologies and employees. It has also captured an obsessive obligation to build better cars, which reflects the Toyota belief in kaizen, or continuous improvement. Finally, the phrase carries with it the responsibility to plan for the long term -- financially, technically, imaginatively. ''The company thinks in years and decades,'' Michael Robinet, a vice president at CSM Worldwide, a consulting firm that focuses on the global auto industry, told me. ''They don't think in months or quarters.'' Certainly the most obvious example of Toyota's long view is the Prius hybrid. Press said he believes that every automobile in the U.S. will eventually be a hybrid. I asked how soon. Not in five years, he replied, ''but I think at some point in the not-too-distant future.'' I asked whether Toyota developed and marketed the technology years ahead of the other major automakers because it possessed better technical skills. Press instead framed the issue as a matter of philosophy. Ten years ago, he said, at about the same time the Prius made its debut, Ford rolled out the huge S.U.V. franchise. ''Both of us had the same tea leaves, the same research,'' he said. ''One of us bet on hybrid, one of us bet on big S.U.V.'s.'' In his view, the wisdom of making big S.U.V.'s -- Press left unacknowledged that Toyota eventually brought out its own line of S.U.V.'s -- seemed dubious: ''First of all, long term, is fuel going to get cheaper or more expensive? Is oil going to become more plentiful or less plentiful? Is the air going to become cleaner or more polluted? And so, do you do something proactive and innovative, to be in tune with where society is going? Or do you hold on to where it has been, and then don't let go, to the bitter end?'' It was never a matter of altruism, he seemed to be saying, but an example of how corporations survive in society. ''What's the right thing to do to sustain the ability to sell more cars and trucks?'' he asked. The Prius was not about a fast return on investment. It was about a slow and long-lasting one. < Previous Page 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Next Page > Subscribe to the International New York Times newspaper and save up to 65%   Inside NYTimes.com Business » For Fund Investors, the Dangers of Rarefied Air Television » Detecting a New Season Sunday Review » Editorial: The Civil Rights of Children The Obama administration speaks out against zero tolerance disciplinary policies that disproportionately affect minorities. Fashion & Style » Weddings & Celebrations Sunday Review » The Strip: The Bibbsy Twins in ‘Identity Crisis’ Travel » 52 Places to Go in 2014 Book Review » The Mind’s Jailer Theater » Vanya and Sonia and Abs and Pecs N.Y. / Region » Women at the Pulpit Sunday Review » Op-Ed: Ariel Sharon, a Warrior Who Could Have Made Peace He was the one Israeli leader who could have reached a settlement with the Palestinians. Magazine » The Flying Tomato Wants a New Name Sunday Review » Exposures: The Mixed Marriage © 2014 The New York Times Company Site Map Privacy Your Ad Choices Advertise Terms of Sale Terms of Service Work With Us RSS Help Contact Us Site Feedback 
