'GMA' Deals and Steals: Big Deals on Patriotic Goods | Video - ABC News
 Now Chris Christie • Pound A Day Diet • Golden Globe 2014 • Target Data Breach • Google • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live 'GMA' Deals and Steals: Big Deals on Patriotic Goods Tory Johnson shares the latest savings on election-themed products. 10/12/2012 Related Links: Watch: Deals and Steals: Products for Kids Watch: 'GMA' Deals and Steals: The Emmy's 2012 Edition Watch: Deals and Steals: Mega Savings on Jewelry and More RELATED TOPICS: U.S. • Katy Perry • Halloween 2013 • California Share: Transcript for 'GMA' Deals and Steals: Big Deals on Patriotic Goods We have an all-american "deals and steals." Again, people, only as supplies last. Logon right now, goodmorningamerica.Com on yahoo! You'll get the promo codes and links for this stuff because it goes... See More We have an all-american "deals and steals." Again, people, only as supplies last. Logon right now, goodmorningamerica.Com on yahoo! You'll get the promo codes and links for this stuff because it goes like hotcakes. Another favorite american meal. Let's start with reproductions of andy warhol's iconic prints. A little surprise for you there. They're perfect. They come framed, ready to go. Dormroom, living room, bedroom, office, you name it. Normally, $120 to $208. But ready for this? I am. 59 bucks. That's phenomenal. Ready to go. This is going to look good in the dressing room, sam. One of the three dressing rooms, sam. This is a secret -- top-secret "steal and deal." Are we ready? Drumroll, please. State necklaces. You can either wear the state that you live, where you want to live, where you were born. Sterling silver. Huge celebrity following. Eva longoria, katy perry. Look at that. Normally, $130. But slashed by 67%. That's great. California has never looked so shiny. It's the ele collection. These are hand-crafted chocolate outside and chocolate ganache inside. You get 12 of your party. 12 donkeys or elephants. You can devour the party or savor the sweetness. These are slashed in half. 22.50. Equal time on chocolates. Happy birthday. I love these. I love these. These are chelsea taylor bracelets, inspired by your favorite pro football team. And they were designed by former new york giants super bowl champ karl banks and his daughter. We have the dolphins here. Robin, the saints. Normally, these pieces range from $79 to $241. The bracelets specifically, 39 bucks. 50% to 63% off. Quick, robin, this one's for you. Don't you think it's a good combo? Her bracelet and the saints bracelet. Looks good. Last but not least, from franklin sports, think halloween, you want to put your kid in a uniform. We have a ton of things you can play with. If your kids want to sharpen their skills on nfl and major league baseball-inspired stuff. So, hours and hours of fun. Supersavings. All of this stuff ranges from $45 to $130. But the savings starts at 62%. The savings starts at 10 bucks. We have all of this, plus, you know, we always have a bonus deal. I can't tell you about. You only find at goodmorningamerica.Com on yahoo! And like that. Who is better than tory johnson, everybody? I know. We want to thank all of the companies for providing these great deals. As she just mentioned, goodmorningamerica.Com on yahoo! Codes, links, deals and all the rest. This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate. Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 1:30 PM ET Headlines & Weather remind me 1:45 PM ET Tech This Out remind me 2:00 PM ET News Pop remind me 2:30 PM ET Headlines & Weather remind me 2:45 PM ET In The Game remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS sections: Most Popular U.S. World Politics Health Entertainment Tech Travel Money Brian Ross Investigates The Assets: Meet the Real People Digital Reports Digital Originals Extreme Video ABC News Audio Home > Video > Most Popular Passenger Films as Plane Crashes Into Ocean Passenger Films as Plane Crashes Into Ocean Eight of the 9 people on board survived the small plane crash off the coast of Hawaii in December. Hawaii Plane Crash Blamed on Engine Failure Hawaii Plane Crash Blamed on Engine Failure Hawaii Health Director Loretta Fuddy was the only passenger who died in the crash. 'Atomic Wedgie' Kills Oklahoma Man, Police Say 'Atomic Wedgie' Kills Oklahoma Man, Police Say Brad Davis is accused of suffocating his stepfather with the 58-year-old man's own underwear. Utah Family Survives Plane Crash: Caught On Tape Utah Family Survives Plane Crash: Caught On Tape Jonathan Fielding was treating his wife, Kara, to her first flight ever on her birthday. Christie Couldn't Pick Fort Lee Mayor 'Out of a Lineup' Christie Couldn't Pick Fort Lee Mayor 'Out of a Lineup' New Jersey governor says he never asked to meet Mark Sokolich during his re-election campaign. Survivor: Hawaii Plane Crash 'Like Instant Brakes' Survivor: Hawaii Plane Crash 'Like Instant Brakes' All but one of nine passengers on a small plane survived the crash. Anne Hathaway Injured in Near-Drowning Incident Anne Hathaway Injured in Near-Drowning Incident The actress was swept out to sea while swimming in Hawaii. Chris Christie's Top Voice-Raising Moments Chris Christie's Top Voice-Raising Moments The New Jersey governor has proven time and again that he's no wallflower. Chris Christie Is Big on 'Responsibility' Chris Christie Is Big on 'Responsibility' The New Jersey governor repeatedly takes responsibility for his staffers' actions. Small Plane Crashes in Michigan Small Plane Crashes in Michigan Cockpit video captured the moment the aircraft nose dived into a cornfield. Friend Charged in Teen Actress' Killing Friend Charged in Teen Actress' Killing Police say Daniel Bartelt, 19, strangled Jessie Blodgett. Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis The 29-year-old woman who had no known medical conditions had not gotten a flu shot. West Virginians Scramble for Water After Chemical Spill West Virginians Scramble for Water After Chemical Spill A chemical spill in the Elk River caused the governor to declare a state of emergency. Solar Storm to Slam Earth Poses One-Week Threat Solar Storm to Slam Earth Poses One-Week Threat The geomagnetic storm could cause communication problems for satellites. Plane Almost Hits Car on Runway Plane Almost Hits Car on Runway Unauthorized black Jeep on runway almost struck by an airplane. 1 of 2 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
