We can't balance America's books on the backs of our wounded warriors | Fox News
 Fox News Digital Network   Fox News   Fox Business   uReport   Fox News Radio   Fox News Latino   Fox Nation   Fox News Insider Login Account You're logged in as   Profile Logout Search Site Listen to Fox News Radio Live › On Air Now › On Air Personalities ›   Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports On Air Previous Slide Next Slide Opinion Home Michael Goodwin Karl Rove John Lott Peter Morici Andrew Napolitano Liz Peek Kelly Wright's 'Beyond the Dream' We can't balance America's books on the backs of our wounded warriors By K.T. McFarlandPublished February 13, 2013 FoxNews.com Bracing for potential sequestration cuts in defense Does Obama have plan to avoid sequester cuts? Sen. John McCain: Sequestration would be devastating "Sequestration".  It's something that sounds more like what you'd do to a horse on the way to the glue factory, than the president's plan to cut federal spending. When you cut away all the Washington-speak, sequestration requires automatic across-the-board cuts to defense and non-defense domestic programs starting March 1 unless the president and Congress come up with a new plan.  The original idea when the sequestration bill was passed in 2011 was the cuts would be so unpalatable to Republicans and Democrats that they'd get their act together in time to find another solution.  It was a "Mutually Assured Destruction" plan so devastating it would never be implemented. It hasn't happened.  Both sides are still as far apart as ever. So what happens to the Department of Defense if these automatic cuts kick in?  The last two Secretaries of Defense -- both highly respected on both sides of the political aisle -- say the proposed defense cuts will be catastrophic.  The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff says the same. The one thing Americans should not do is balance our books on the backs of our veterans and wounded warriors. Nevertheless, defense spending will be cut. And it should be. The Iraq war is over and the Afghan war winding down. We're unlikely to fight big land wars in the Middle East or elsewhere for a long time.    The masses of civilian employees and consultants we hired after September 11 are a layer of bureaucracy we don't need and can't afford. We will also cut into the bone. We will hollow out the force, cut back on training and maintenance, and give up certain missions. But that's where we should stop.   The one thing Americans should not do is balance our books on the backs of our veterans and wounded warriors.  We did this after the Vietnam War, and it was a permanent stain on the soul of America. We punished our veterans for an unpopular war.  Not only did we spit on them when they returned home, we cut their pay and benefits. They fought for us, and bled for us, and died for us, and we tossed them away. One of the greatest strengths in the American system of government is civilian control of the military. We have the strongest, most powerful military in the history of the world, but it bends unquestioningly to the will of our elected officials.   Our military leaders don't seize power in coups; our soldiers and sailors don't go on strike for higher pay or benefits; our armed forces don't weigh in on the political process. In return, Americans have a sacred duty to treat them honorably.  As usual, Lincoln said it best.  We must "care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan." We haven't always lived up to this responsibility.  I saw this first hand in 1981 when the Reagan administration came into office. When we arrived at the Pentagon we were horrified by what we found after a decade of neglect. We had ships that couldn't sail because they didn't have fuel. We had planes forced to sit grounded on the runway because of pilots didn't have enough training hours to be certified. For every tank that worked, we had one sitting right next to it that was cannibalized for spare parts. But worst of all was what we had done to our military men and women. We had the homeless Vietnam vets, living on the streets in wheelchairs, without adequate medical or mental health benefits.  We had junior enlisted personnel who were paid so little they qualified for food stamps.  It made me ashamed to be an American. In his State of the Union address Tuesday night President Obama said: "We will keep faith with our veterans -- investing in world-class care, including mental health care for our wounded warriors; supporting our military families; and giving our veterans the benefits, education, and job opportunities they have earned." Let's hope he means it, and those are not just empty words. Because as things stand now, sequestration cuts will cut military and veterans health care benefits, will reduce spending on military families and will squeeze the veterans' education and job assistance programs. President Obama proposed the sequestration legislation, and it will be up to him to determine where the mandatory defense department cuts come from.   So far he's declared that 'military personnel accounts' will be exempt from the cuts.  What that means is military pay will not be cut, but related programs like medical benefits, the GI-bill, drug abuse counseling, and post-military job assistance programs are eligible for automatic reductions. We all know there are tough times coming for us all. We will all be asked to tighten our belts. But the one thing we must never do again is to expect our men and women in uniform to bear the biggest share of the burden.  They may be only 1% of our population, but they bear 100% of our defense.  They didn't ask for those multiple deployments,  for the strain on their families, for the physical and mental injuries many will bear for the rest of their lives.   To deny them the benefits they've earned would not only be  tragic for them and their families -- the 1% --  but it would also be tragic for the other 99% of Americans.    We can never let that stain come back on the soul of America. Kathleen Troia "K.T." McFarland is a Fox News National Security Analyst and host of FoxNews.com's " DefCon 3 ." She served in national security posts in the Nixon, Ford and Reagan administrations. She was an aide to Dr. Henry Kissinger at the White House, and in 1984 Ms. McFarland wrote Secretary of Defense Weinberger's groundbreaking  "Principles of War " speech.  She received the Defense Department's highest civilian award for her work in the Reagan administration.   K.T. McFarland   Print   Email   Share   Comments Recommend Tweet Related Video Dire warnings issued for budget cuts to Defense department Related Stories White House outlines deep cuts that could be coming soon Share This Article View Article You must login to comment. View Article Advertisement Follow Fox News Opinion Get Our Free Newsletter Newsletter Signup   Trending in Opinion 1 Georgia cops buy taxi fare for man who walked 29 miles to court on frigid day 2 Sebelius, Congress should take ObamaCare bailout off the table 3 A-Rod -- a victim of hubris in a modern-day Greek tragedy 4 If you knew who was behind “Close-Gitmo” push, you'd be shocked 5 The Tea Party movement vs. the IRS in 2014 See all trends › Investing Investing › Marijuana stocks a buy or a drag on your portfolio? Goldman Raises Price Target on Twitter to $65 Why I’m buying back Ford in my portfolio: Levine Fox Nation ObamaCare Death Spiral Begins: Health Care Plans Attracting More Older, Less Healthy January 13, 2014 Hillary's Aides Joked About Ted Kennedy's Death January 13, 2014 HHS: 90 Percent of People on Exchanges Will Get Federal Funding January 13, 2014 Obama Plans to 'Mobilize' Americans Around a 'National Mission' January 13, 2014 Hillary's Hit List January 13, 2014 Advertisement Also on the web Generic Beauty Buys -- Savings Experiment Single-Serve Coffee Savings -- Savings Experiment Gov. Christie Staff Learns Deleted Email Rarely Goes Away After Market: Early Earnings Season Warnings Send Stocks Stumbling U.S. Runs Record Budget Surplus in December Telecom Equipment a Bright Spot in Down Market Selloff Leaves Nearly All Indexes in the Red in ‘14 Storenvy to Charge for Marketplace Sales in 2014 How Scammers Steal Your Tax Return Auto Part Makers Race Higher Italian P.M. to press for updated EU-Mexico accord Honduras investigating case of $7.2 mn seized in Panama Immigrant students urge NY governor to fund aid program Half the children in Denver shelters are Latino Fighting All The Way: A-Rod Sues League And Players' Union Over His 162-Game Suspension Sections Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports Weather Shows A Healthy You & Carol Alt America's News HQ America's Newsroom Cavuto Fox Files Fox News Sunday Fox & Friends First Fox & Friends Fox & Friends Weekend Geraldo at Large Greta Hannity Happening Now Huckabee   Justice with Judge Jeanine Media Buzz Red Eye w/ Gutfeld Shepard Smith Reporting Special Report Specials The Cost of Freedom The Five The Journal Editorial Report The Kelly File The O' Reilly Factor The Real Story War Stories Tools Live Video Trending uReport Newsletters Alerts Blogs Mobile Podcasts Radio Fox News Store Apps & Downloads About Careers College Students Fox Around the World Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Contact Us Email Newsroom FAQ Media Relations Follow   Facebook   Twitter   Google+   LinkedIn   RSS   Newsletters This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 
