Benghazi emails reveal Obama White House's obsession with spin control | Fox News
 Fox News Digital Network   Fox News   Fox Business   uReport   Fox News Radio   Fox News Latino   Fox Nation   Fox News Insider Login Account You're logged in as   Profile Logout Search Site Listen to Fox News Radio Live › On Air Now › On Air Personalities ›   Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports On Air Previous Slide Next Slide Opinion Home Michael Goodwin Karl Rove John Lott Peter Morici Andrew Napolitano Liz Peek Kelly Wright's 'Beyond the Dream' Benghazi emails reveal Obama White House's obsession with spin control By Karl RovePublished May 17, 2013 FoxNews.com Benghazi investigation:Questions that still need to be asked Donald Rumsfeld on Benghazi Sen. Paul calls on Clinton to accept blame for Benghazi When it dumped 100 emails related to the Benghazi talking points Wednesday night, the Obama White House showed it hasn’t been telling the truth.   These talking points were not the sole product of the intelligence community, but were in fact edited by State Department officials and White House officials and then decided upon at a White House meeting.   After reading these emails, it’s clear the administration’s principal concern behind the edits was to protect itself from public and Congressional criticism, not to get out the facts of the attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi in which four Americans died. Laying out the facts about the Benghazi attacks was a task better left to substantive policymakers, not spin merchants. But the emails also leave unanswered important questions, while offering tantalizing clues and suggestions.   First, State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland was pushing to water down the CIA-drafted talking points. But she’s not the person in charge at State.   At 9:24 PM Friday, September 14, she complained that the edits made so far “don't resolve all my issues or those of my building leadership. They are consulting with NSS.”  NSS could stand for National Security Staff, i.e., the White House. So who above Ms. Nuland at the State Department was talking to whom at the White House?  And did these unnamed parties agree on the final edits that were laid out at a National Security Council Deputies meeting at the White House on the morning of September 15? Second, we still don’t know who is responsible for cooking up the story offered by U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Susan Rice on Sunday morning, September 16, namely that an anti-Muslim video was the cause of the attack on the Consulate.  The emails may yield a possible clue. There's a series of emails starting Saturday afternoon and going into the evening between an unnamed person at the U.S. mission to the U.N. and National Security Council communications chief Ben Rhodes and NSC spokesman Tommy Vietor about the preparation for Ms. Rice for the Sunday morning talk programs.  Could the unnamed USUN staffer be Erin Pelton, the spokesperson for the mission? Ms. Nuland has already told the press she had nothing to do with prepping Ms. Rice. Jacob Sullivan, then at the State Department, and now Vice President Joe Biden's foreign policy advisor, says he, too, had nothing to do with preparing Ms. Rice. But Saturday afternoon and evening, this unnamed USUN staffer told two White House staffers that they needed to get settled on Ms. Rice’s appearances the next morning. Does that mean the USUN staffer, Mr. Rhodes and Mr. Vietor were responsible for cooking up the absurd and misleading storyline that an anti-Muslim video caused the death of four Americans when it was clear this was a terrorist assault carried out by a group with ties to Al Qaeda? One final observation: when the task at hand was explaining what happened at Benghazi, it is amazing that so much of the email traffic was between at least seven communications people in six agencies.   With all due respect to communications people, laying out the facts about the Benghazi attacks was a task better left to substantive policymakers, not spin merchants whose principal concern might have been the election less than two months off. There’s even a summary of a secure video conference conducted Friday with a number of national security, intelligence, and counter-terrorism officials during which Mike Morell, the deputy director of the CIA, offered to sit down with Mr. Rhodes and Mr. Vietor to work out the talking points.    When the deputy CIA director is working on talking points with communications people three layers down in the White House, it shows the power of the spin patrol within the West Wing and gives the appearance that the White House is the ultimate shot caller on the talking points. Since this is contrary to everything the Obama administration has said previously, these spin merchants have been forced to work overtime recently. The pressure is not likely to end soon, and they have no one to blame but themselves.   Karl Rove joined Fox News Channel (FNC) as a political contributor in February 2008. He also currently serves as a columnist for the Wall Street Journal. Karl Rove   Print   Email   Share   Comments Recommend Tweet Related Interactive Full Text: White House Emails Related to Benghazi Attack Obama administration's internal Benghazi emails Related Video What do Benghazi documents, e-mails reveal? Related Opinion What really happened in Benghazi? Storm clouds gathering -- your safety, your freedoms and the Obama White House Share This Article View Article You must login to comment. View Article Advertisement Follow Fox News Opinion Get Our Free Newsletter Newsletter Signup   Trending in Opinion 1 UConn rebukes coach, says Jesus doesn’t belong in football 2 All wrong: In California, girls can use urinals in the boys room 3 Mrs. Clinton, the truth about Benghazi does make a difference 4 It's time to investigate the bogus IRS 'investigation' 5 First-grader told to stop talking about Bible See all trends › Investing Investing › Morning Business Outlook: 1/17/14 SeaWorld of Earnings Problems Looking back on almost five years with Covestor Fox Nation White House Caught in Another Massive ObamaCare Lie....This Time About Enrollments January 16, 2014 Robert Gates Fires Back at Harry Reid Over Memoir Criticism January 16, 2014 Michigan Attorney General Reacts to Teachers' Union Leader Defending Child Rapist January 16, 2014 Gallup Daily: Obama Job Approval Back in the 30s ... January 17, 2014 Levin: Republicans Should Boycott the State of the Union January 17, 2014 Advertisement Also on the web Save on Snow Removal -- Savings Experiment Spruce Up Your Smartphone to Save -- Savings Experiment Man Fired for Mocking Mentally Ill Inmates and Visiting Porn Sites Money Minute: Richest U.S. States; Russian Mob Behind Data Breaches? Housing Starts Fall in December, but Less Than Expected SeaWorld of Earnings Problems Demystifying College Costs: Fixed-Rate Tuition Plans How to Become the Next Big Thing in Innovation Brass Tacks Connected Home Startup Cheers Google’s Nest Buy Jailed Cuban Opposition Figure Released On Parole Mexico To Be U.S. Commerce Secretary's First Trade Mission Destination Shakira Fans, Mark Your Calendars: Colombian Singer Drops New Album March 25 Grenade blast wounds 36 demonstrators in Thailand U.S. confiscates $28 mn in bitcoins from drug Web site Sections Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports Weather Shows A Healthy You & Carol Alt America's News HQ America's Newsroom Cavuto Fox Files Fox News Sunday Fox & Friends First Fox & Friends Fox & Friends Weekend Geraldo at Large Greta Hannity Happening Now Huckabee   Justice with Judge Jeanine Media Buzz Red Eye w/ Gutfeld Shepard Smith Reporting Special Report Specials The Cost of Freedom The Five The Journal Editorial Report The Kelly File The O' Reilly Factor The Real Story War Stories Tools Live Video Trending uReport Newsletters Alerts Blogs Mobile Podcasts Radio Fox News Store Apps & Downloads About Careers College Students Fox Around the World Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Contact Us Email Newsroom FAQ Media Relations Follow   Facebook   Twitter   Google+   LinkedIn   RSS   Newsletters This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 
