Diane Sawyer's 'GMA' Journey | Video - ABC News
 Now Chris Christie • Pound A Day Diet • Teen Stops Suicide Bomber • Lena Dunham • Target Data Breach • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Diane Sawyer's 'GMA' Journey A look back at the anchor's many experiences at "GMA." 04:00 | 09/11/2008 Related Links: Watch: Sam Champion's 'GMA' Journey Watch: Chris Cuomo's Great Adventures Watch: Robin's Journey Share: Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 9:00 AM ET GMA Live remind me 9:15 AM ET News Pop remind me 9:30 AM ET Opening Bell remind me 10:00 AM ET News Pop remind me 10:30 AM ET Headlines & Weather remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS sections: Most Popular U.S. World Politics Health Entertainment Tech Travel Money Brian Ross Investigates The Assets: Meet the Real People Digital Reports Digital Originals Extreme Video ABC News Audio Home > Video > Most Popular Passenger Films as Plane Crashes Into Ocean Passenger Films as Plane Crashes Into Ocean Eight of the 9 people on board survived the small plane crash off the coast of Hawaii in December. Sperm Switch: Biological Dad Is Convicted Felon Sperm Switch: Biological Dad Is Convicted Felon Genetic testing links adult daughter to a convicted kidnapper who used to work at a Utah fertility clinic. 2 Already Dead From Flu Strain 2 Already Dead From Flu Strain Dr. Richard Besser discusses deaths related to what is believed to be the H1N1 virus. Teenager Mistaken for Intruder Fatally Shot by Neighbor Teenager Mistaken for Intruder Fatally Shot by Neighbor Virginia police say high school student Caleb A. Gordley entered the house through a window. The 'Other' Malalas The 'Other' Malalas Many other unsung heroes fight for human rights in Pakistan. 2,000-Year-Old Human Remains Found at Construction Site 2,000-Year-Old Human Remains Found at Construction Site Archaeologists unearth woman's bones discovered by crews doing road work in Davie, Fla. Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis The 29-year-old woman who had no known medical conditions had not gotten a flu shot. Georgia Mother Shoots Home Intruder: 911 Tapes Georgia Mother Shoots Home Intruder: 911 Tapes Melinda Herman's husband calls his wife a hero, says, "she protected her kids." California Hospital Sets Up Tent to Prepare for Flu California Hospital Sets Up Tent to Prepare for Flu Regional Medical Center in San Jose separates suspected flu patients to contain the spread of the virus. First-Time Mom Live-Tweets Birth First-Time Mom Live-Tweets Birth Ruth Iorio documented her labor and son's birth on social media with Tweets and Instagram photos. The Unknown Ramifications of America's Fertility Industry The Unknown Ramifications of America's Fertility Industry Some sperm donors have learned they have fathered more than 100 babies. Lane Closures at the George Washington Bridge and Chris Christie's Apology Lane Closures at the George Washington Bridge and Chris Christie's Apology NJ governor adamantly denies involvement; class action law suit announced today. Number of States with High Flu Activity Triples Number of States with High Flu Activity Triples Dr. Richard Besser discusses how the flu is on the rise in much of the country. Mammoth Find in Iowa Family's Yard Mammoth Find in Iowa Family's Yard Homeowner works with scientists to unearth 12,000-year-old mammoth. Utah Family Survives Plane Crash: Caught On Tape Utah Family Survives Plane Crash: Caught On Tape Jonathan Fielding was treating his wife, Kara, to her first flight ever on her birthday. 1 of 2 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
