Edward Snowden NSA Leaker: Will Whistleblower Find Asylum? | Video - ABC News
 Now Ariel Sharon • Daisy Coleman • Bill de Blasio • Chris Christie • Target Data Breach • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Will NSA Whistleblower Find Asylum? ABC News' Jonathan Karl and Dan Abrams discuss Edward Snowden. 01:37 | 06/10/2013 Related Links: Watch: Edward Snowden Claims to Be NSA Leaker Watch: Reported NSA Leaker Comes Forward Watch: White House Reacts to NSA Whistleblower Revelation RELATED TOPICS: Hong Kong • James R. Clapper • China • U.S. Share: Transcript for Will NSA Whistleblower Find Asylum? Let's get more on the fallout from jon karl. Our legal analyst dan abrams and, jon, let me begin with you. Over the weekend the director of national intelligence, the intelligence chairs on "this... See More Let's get more on the fallout from jon karl. Our legal analyst dan abrams and, jon, let me begin with you. Over the weekend the director of national intelligence, the intelligence chairs on "this week" yesterday making clear just how serious this leak is. Reporter: Oh, absolutely and you heard from the top intelligence official in the government, james clapper saying that this has done grave damage to our intelligence capability so make no mistake, george, if snowden did what he says he has done here, top officials view him not as a hero but as a criminal. You can expect them to seek extradition. You can expect them to fully prosecute this. Right now the justice department saying only that they've opened the investigation but they view this with utmost seriousness. Dan, the only question really now is how -- what kind of charges they'll throw at snowden and whether he can find asylum somewhere. That's right. The first question is what do they charge him with? They'll throw the book at him. The question is how heavy is that book? And that's going to be the issue that the government is going to have to decide here. Number two, and connected to that is, how do they get him here for trial? And if he stays in hong kong, you know, there are real questions. Now, there's no question hong kong has an extradition treaty with the united states but when matters become political there are specific exceptions and the question is going to be does the government of hong kong and china maybe more importantly view this as the kind of case where they want to draw the line and say, you know what, we're going to battle on this one and we're not going to extradite him. It would seem as of now that snowden is making that bet. That would be a real rift in the u.S./China relationship. Okay, dan, thanks very much. This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate. Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 9:00 AM ET GMA Live remind me 9:15 AM ET News Pop remind me 9:30 AM ET Opening Bell remind me 10:00 AM ET News Pop remind me 10:30 AM ET Headlines & Weather remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS sections: Most Popular U.S. World Politics Health Entertainment Tech Travel Money Brian Ross Investigates The Assets: Meet the Real People Digital Reports Digital Originals Extreme Video ABC News Audio Home > Video > Most Popular 2 Already Dead From Flu Strain 2 Already Dead From Flu Strain Dr. Richard Besser discusses deaths related to what is believed to be the H1N1 virus. Remembering Sam Berns Remembering Sam Berns Sam Berns fought the rare condition that aged him at accelerated speeds passes. The Triumphant Story of Sam Berns, Progeria and Math The Triumphant Story of Sam Berns, Progeria and Math Mother of teenager with progeria discovers genetic mutation, and works to develop a drug. Teen Accuses Popular High School Senior of Rape Teen Accuses Popular High School Senior of Rape Act 3: In Maryville, Mo., Daisy Coleman and her friend claim they were sexually assaulted. Passenger Films as Plane Crashes Into Ocean Passenger Films as Plane Crashes Into Ocean Eight of the 9 people on board survived the small plane crash off the coast of Hawaii in December. Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis Texas Mother Dies Days After Flu Diagnosis The 29-year-old woman who had no known medical conditions had not gotten a flu shot. California Hospital Sets Up Tent to Prepare for Flu California Hospital Sets Up Tent to Prepare for Flu Regional Medical Center in San Jose separates suspected flu patients to contain the spread of the virus. Passenger Films Hawaiian Plane Crash from Inside Cabin Passenger Films Hawaiian Plane Crash from Inside Cabin Ferdinand Puentes captured the moment of impact and evacuation of Dec. plane crash that killed one. Lane Closures at the George Washington Bridge and Chris Christie's Apology Lane Closures at the George Washington Bridge and Chris Christie's Apology NJ governor adamantly denies involvement; class action law suit announced today. Number of States with High Flu Activity Triples Number of States with High Flu Activity Triples Dr. Richard Besser discusses how the flu is on the rise in much of the country. The 'Other' Malalas The 'Other' Malalas Many other unsung heroes fight for human rights in Pakistan. Deadly Floods in Florida Deadly Floods in Florida Florida residents wading knee-deep after 22 inches of rain turned streets into rivers. West Virginia Water Emergency West Virginia Water Emergency Hundreds fall ill after toxic leak as FEMA delivers 1 million liters of water. Progeria: New Hope for Patients Progeria: New Hope for Patients A cancer drug helped improve the symptoms of progeria, a rapid aging disease. First-Time Mom Live-Tweets Birth First-Time Mom Live-Tweets Birth Ruth Iorio documented her labor and son's birth on social media with Tweets and Instagram photos. 1 of 2 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
