Will Egyptian Revolution Lead to More Stability?  | Video - ABC News
 Now Satan Statue Design • Polar Vortex • Monica Spear • Last DC-9 • Mary Kay Letourneau • Weather News Good Morning America World News Nightline 20/20 This Week Sign In Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money Shows GMA World News Nightline 20/20 This Week More Investigative Money Sports Good News Photos Fusion Live Weather Preferences Cancel Set Home Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment Tech Health Lifestyle Money More Investigative Good News Photos Fusion Live Will Egyptian Revolution Lead to More Stability? Two years after Egyptians overthrew President Hosni Mubarak, military steps in to shift power again. 03:28 | 07/04/2013 Related Links: Watch: Egypt's First Democratically Elected President Ousted Watch: Egyptian Military Give Morsi an Ultimatum RELATED TOPICS: Egypt • Hosni Mubarak • Muslim Brotherhood • Mohamed Morsi Share: Transcript for Will Egyptian Revolution Lead to More Stability? Let's bring in abc's global affairs anchor, christiane amanpour, who has so much experience in the region. And abc's senior foreign affairs correspondent, martha raddatz. Good morning to both of you.... See More Let's bring in abc's global affairs anchor, christiane amanpour, who has so much experience in the region. And abc's senior foreign affairs correspondent, martha raddatz. Good morning to both of you. Christiane, I would like to start with you. You had the last interview with the last egyptian president, hosni mubarak. They're taking great pains, the military, to say this isn't a coup. But it is, isn't it? This is going to be an argument for days to come, at least, as the u.S. Government figures out how to respond. Calling it a coup, not calling it a coup, and as the rest of the world does. You've seen the battle lines drawn in egypt. I interviewed morsi. He said to me he was going to be president for all egyptians. And this is the problem because they didn't believe he was. This is really the battle lines between secularism and religion. What the military's done is toppled an islamic president with an islamist constitution. And we'll see whether there is a political solution going forward. We don't know when the next elections are going to be held. Martha, I want to go to you for a moment. The obama administration has taken great pains to get a carefully-worded statement. They don't have influence over these events at this point, even though we have close ties with the military. They certainly have no influence over morsi at this time. But are watching it very closely. President obama put out a statement last night, as you said, very carefully worded. He said, we are deeply concerned by the decision of the egyptian armed forces to remove president morsi and suspend the egyptian constitution. I now call on the egyptian military to move quickly and responsibly to return authority to a democratically-elected civilian government. They want that to happen as soon as possible. As you said, they did not call it a military coup. There is a reason for that. That is a legal term. If there is actually a military coup, the united states would have to suspend its aid, its military aid to egypt. That's about $1.3 billion. So, at the heart of this is money. At the heart of this is money. Indeed, what's at stake for the united states? This is a key arab alley. The largest arab country on the heart of the suez canal, through which oil and vessels travel. It's massively influential. One in four arabs in that region live in egypt. We have a very close military relationship with egypt. It is absolutely a key partner. What happens there really does influence the rest of the region. Christiane we heard of the threats of violence from the muslim brotherhood. They said dying for the sake of god is more sublime than anything. What is the danger this could flip into an all-out civil war? With any luck it will not. People are talking about shedding blood, even the military, before they took over, saying they would shed their blood to maintain the integrity of egypt. This is part of what they're saying. We have to see if the military makes good on promising to have new election, rewriting the constitution and how long that will take. And crucially, whether out of this comes an opposition that can be a counterweight to the muslim brotherhood. We'll see what happens. It's very, very problematic that they've arrested so many people, the military and have closed down certain television stations. Really have to keep an eye on what the military does. It may not be a military coup but it's a military umpired solution right now. Who is in charge, the answer is, the military. This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate. Now on ABC News is always on. watch now Coming Up 1:00 PM ET News Pop remind me 1:15 PM ET Entertainment Pop remind me 1:30 PM ET Headlines & Weather remind me 1:45 PM ET Tech This Out remind me 2:00 PM ET News Pop remind me Google Calendar Email Reminder MORE VIDEO Sections Shows Video RSS sections: Most Popular U.S. World Politics Health Entertainment Tech Travel Money Brian Ross Investigates The Assets: Meet the Real People Digital Reports Digital Originals Extreme Video ABC News Audio Home > Video > Most Popular Hasselbeck: Satan Exists Hasselbeck: Satan Exists "View" co-host believes the devil is an actual force responsible for evil. NYC Workers to Be Charged for Alleged 9/11 Disability Fraud NYC Workers to Be Charged for Alleged 9/11 Disability Fraud Retired police and firefighters are accused of lying about disabilities stemming from 9/11. Brain Dead Teen Moving to New Facility, Family Says Brain Dead Teen Moving to New Facility, Family Says Children's Hospital Oakland continues to say that 13-year-old Jahi McMath is legally dead. Girl, 3, Brain Dead After Root Canal Surgery Girl, 3, Brain Dead After Root Canal Surgery A lawsuit has been filed against the dental practice where Finely Boyle went into cardiac arrest. Baby Born Brain Dead Dies, Family Blames Forceps Baby Born Brain Dead Dies, Family Blames Forceps Texas family says Olivia Maria Coats' skull was fractured during her birth. Record Deep Freeze Covers Half The U.S. Record Deep Freeze Covers Half The U.S. Polar vortex snarls roads and airports with wind chill at 65 below. Cars Crash, Temperatures Drop in Deadly Polar Vortex Cars Crash, Temperatures Drop in Deadly Polar Vortex Indoor and outdoor displays of the effect that extreme cold has had on the U.S. Polar Vortex Freezes Parts of US Polar Vortex Freezes Parts of US About 187 million Americans are hit with record-low temperatures. Part 1: Does Satan Exist? Part 1: Does Satan Exist? Is the Prince of Darkness a manmade myth or a sinister reality? Brain-Eating Amoeba Victim's Organs Donated Brain-Eating Amoeba Victim's Organs Donated Zachary Reyna, a 12-year-old from Florida, was left brain dead by a water-borne parasite. Passengers Stuck on Amtrak Train for More Than 12 Hours Passengers Stuck on Amtrak Train for More Than 12 Hours About 500 were stranded in rural Illinois after the train became stranded in snow drifts. Barbara Walters' Exclusive Interview With Mary Kay Letourneau Barbara Walters' Exclusive Interview With Mary Kay Letourneau 2004: Infamous teacher explained to Barbara Walters how she fell in love with a 13-year-old boy. Disability Scams Costing Taxpayers Disability Scams Costing Taxpayers Was extreme athlete also California city worker collecting disability payments? Pilot Killed, 2 Injured in Aspen Plane Crash Pilot Killed, 2 Injured in Aspen Plane Crash Federal Investigators are investigating a small plane that crash-landed near a luxurious ski resort. Steubenville: After the Party's Over Steubenville: After the Party's Over Part 1: Two football players, a drunk girl -- and a local story becomes a national scandal. 1 of 2 | Next Sections U.S. World Politics Weird News Investigative Health Entertainment Sports Money Technology Travel Recipes News Topics Live Blog Shows NY Med Good Morning America World News with Diane Sawyer Nightline ABC's The Lookout This Week with George Stephanopoulos 20/20 Primetime What Would You Do? ABC.com Royal Baby Tools iPad App Register Sign In Facebook Twitter Google Plus Blogs Emails & News Alerts Message Boards RSS Headlines About Contact Us Feedback Advertising Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use ABC News Store Site Map Authors List Fusion Go.com External links are provided for reference purposes. ABC News is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites. Copyright © 2014 ABC News Internet Ventures. Yahoo! - ABC News Network Back to top 
