December 2013
 Stay Angry HOME ABOUT CONTACT RSS PODCAST 12.31.2013 This Year's Angriest Posts Not necessarily the angriest, just the most viewed posts of 2013. 1. The Nerdiest / Most Gangster Yearbook Quote Ever 2. Okay, so this is pretty much the worst thing ever made. 3. Aziz Ansari takes down racist, homophobic jokes at Comedy Central's Roast of James Franco 4. The guys who dressed up as bloody Asiana flight attendants 5. "Captain Sum Ting Wong"? For real? Pranked news station reports racist fake Asiana flight crew names 6. Lorde has an Asian boyfriend. Get the f%*k over it, internet. 7. Reverse racism exists. All you need is a time machine. 8. Julie Chen admits she got surgery to look "less Asian" 9. Please stop saying these things to Asians. 10. You were not invited to Kappa Sigma's "Racist Rager." Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: 2013, angriest posts 12.30.2013 Supermarket employee suspended over YouTube video Steve Yamamoto just wanted to thank Safeway for shutting down 72 Dominick's stores. So you're an employee at a supermarket that's closing down for good. You and your co-workers will soon be out of a job. Might as well make the most of it and have some fun. That's what one Chicago-area supermarket worker did, making a funny, explosion-filled video clip starring himself and his co-workers getting caught in the chaos of a doomed Dominick's store. For his efforts, he got suspended. On his last day on the job. Suburban Dominick's Employee Suspended On Last Day For Satirical YouTube Clip Steve Yamamoto, a former employee at the closing Dominick's store in Glen Ellyn, made a funny, sarcastic video to commemorate the shutdown of 72 stores, leaving an estimated 6,000 workers without a job. The video, addressed to parent company Safeway, features dinosaurs, robots, gunfire and hauntingly empty shelves, in the epic, explosive end of a Dominick's store: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: chicago, dominicks, funny, safeway, supermarket, video Did you get a Jeremy Lin keychain at Saturday's Rockets game? If so, did you pick up an extra one for me? If you went to see the Houston Rockets play the New Orleans Pelicans this past Saturday, and you were one of the first 5,000 fans to make your way into the Toyota Center, then you might have gotten your hands on one of these goofy Jeremy Lin keychains. The resemblance is... well, at least it's kind of cute. If you did get your hands on one, any chance you picked up an extra one for me? If not, I might have to plunk down some cash to add it to my collection. I just saw one going for $40 on eBay. Forty bucks! Booooooo. Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: basketball, houston rockets, jeremy lin, sports Nation's first Hmong American judge appointed in California Paul C. Lo appointed to a judgeship in the Merced County Superior Court Last week in California, Governor Jerry Brown appointed Paul C. Lo to a judgeship in the Merced County Superior Court. The historic appointment makes Lo the first Hmong American judge in United States history. First Hmong American judge in U.S. appointed in Merced County Lo, 45, has been a practicing attorney for twenty years. He says that when he first arrived to the United States with this family at age 11, as refugees from the Vietnam War, he didn't speak any English. He eventually graduated from the University of California at Davis and UCLA School of Law. Here's some more information from the Office of the Governor's press release: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: california, hmong, judge, paul lo 12.29.2013 Angry Asian Man's Favorite Posts of 2013 Twenty posts I really enjoyed sharing this year I've been running this blog for a really long time. Looking back at the year, I can safely say that 2013 saw some of the craziest, weirdest, upsetting and anger-inducing happenings this blog has ever covered. That said, I did a quick dip back into the archives over the past twelve months, and with some editorial deliberation, selected twenty posts I really enjoyed sharing, for one reason or another. So, in no particular order, here's a look back at some of my favorite posts of 2013: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: 2013, favorite posts 12.27.2013 Serve the People: The Asian American Movement in New York Exhibition running through February 23 at Interference Archive If you're in New York, don't miss Serve the People: The Asian American Movement in New York, a multimedia exhibition charting a history of Asian American activism, organizing, and cultural production in the 1970s, running now through February 23 at Interference Archive in Brooklyn. Curated by Ryan Wong, it's the first exhibition to focus on New York as a center of this national phenomenon. Here are some more details: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: art, events, exhibition, history, new york city, the movement Music Video: "Psychadelic" by Azure Check it out. Very much digging this new music video for "Psychadelic" by Bay Area rapper Justin Park, aka Azure. Just another chill-ass track set to visuals of Azure and crew hanging around various undisclosed locations in Oakland. Not much more to it. Just a cool tune to nod along to as we close out the year. Take a look: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: azuré, hip hop, music, music video, video Angry Reader of the Week: Albert Kim Heyyyyy. Take a moment out of your holiday funk and check it out. Time to meet the Angry Reader of the Week, spotlighting you, the very special readers of this website. Over the years, I've been able to connect with a lot of cool folks, and this is a way of showing some appreciation and attention to the people who help make this blog what it is. This week's Angry Reader is Albert Kim. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: albert kim, angry reader of the week Orange County man pleads guilty to terror charges Sinh Vinh Ngo Nguyen plotted to train al Qaeda forces for an upcoming attack An update on the case of this wannabe terrorist trainer guy in Southern California... This week in U.S. District Court, a man pleaded guilty to a federal terrorism charge, admitting that he intended to go to Pakistan to become an al Qaeda operative and provide militants with weapons training for an upcoming attack. California man pleads guilty to terror charge 24-year-old Sinh Vinh Ngo Nguyen pleaded guilty to one count of attempting to provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist organization. According tot he U.S. Department of Justice, Nguyen admitted in a plea agreement that he went Syria about a year ago to join opposition forces against the Bashar Assad regime. He apparently offered to train al Qaeda forces, but his services were rejected. Later, back in the United States, Nguyen met with a guy he thought was an al Qaeda recruiter to discuss going to Pakistan -- in a scheme that involved faking his own death -- to train terrorist fighters for a guerrilla attack on coalition forces. That guy turned out to be an FBI agent. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: asians behaving badly, crime, orange county, terrorism Victim of Fort Lee police van debacle speaks out Kevin Jun says he still suffers from post-traumatic stress Nearly three years after being locked up, forgotten and left overnight in a New Jersey police van in freezing temperatures, one of the victims is speaking out, saying he still suffers from post-traumatic stress, including fear of cramped spaces and a distrust of police officers. Really, can you blame him? Fort Lee man haunted by 15 hours he spent locked in police van 20-year-old Kevin Jun was one of five teens (he was 17 at the time) who were rounded up at a party in March 2011 by Fort Lee police officers, taken to the station, then forgotten and left locked outside in a police van for fifteen hours. They were stuck there with no food or water, no bathroom and no way to call out. As temperatures dipped into the 20s, Jun says he was only wearing a t-shirt. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: bad cop, fort lee, lawsuit, new jersey, police, racism, that's racist 12.26.2013 Harry Shum Jr. makes a big beautiful mess "If you are in a shell, you should know that you're not alone..." Wow. Check out this awesome dance performance video, "If You Are In a Shell," featuring Harry Shum Jr. and a lot of paint. Choreographed and performed by Harry -- who acts as sort of a moving human canvas -- to a voice over by Ze Frank of Buzzfeed, it's a special message to anyone who might feel like they're all alone: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: color, dance, harry shum jr., messy, video Seattle doctor pleads guilty to dealing prescription drugs Dr. Hieu Tu Le faces federal prison for unlawfully distributing oxycodone Asians behaving badly... drug dealing doctor edition! This week in Seattle, an anesthesiologist pleaded guilty to running a drug prescription mill out a medical marijuana clinic. And making a boatload of cash. Everett doctor admits to prescribing drugs 'simply to make a profit' 40-year-old Dr. Hieu Tu Le faces federal prison time for issuing dozens of illegal prescriptions for oxycodone, a powerful painkiller that has become a popular street drug, out of his clinic Northwest Green Medical. Shady. But why go through the trouble of writing prescriptions, when you can make a crapload of cash as a dealer too? Le also devised a fake prescription scheme, using patients' names without their knowledge, to acquire the drugs himself and sell the pills to dealers or addicts. Le was busted after an intensive Drug Enforcement Administration investigation, when he was just a little too willing to supply oxycodone to an agent posing as a painkiller-addicted patient. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: asians behaving badly, crime, drugs, oxycodone, seattle Music Video: Vienna Teng puts on dancing shoes in "Level Up" Inspiring, surprising video features dancer Tommy Guns Ly Love this marvelous music video for "Level Up" by singer/songwriter Vienna Teng, from her fifth studio album Aims. Crowdfunded by fans, and directed by Lawrence Chen, whose work I've been a fan of for years, it features Vienna dancing, and much more. It's a surprising, inspiring and uplifting video that goes to unexpected places. Take a look: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: dance, lawrence chen, music, music video, tommy guns ly, video, vienna teng Nobody got me this Voltron Hoodie for Christmas It needs matching Blue/Yellow Lion pants All right. Thank you for all the gift cards and socks, but I guess I should have dropped some bigger hints. I woke up Christmas morning to find out that nobody left a Deluxe Voltron Costume Hoodie in my stocking. That's okay. It's only $160. I'll start saving up my allowance. Or maybe I'll wait and hold out until they make matching pants (designed with the Yellow and Blue Lions), plus Blazing Sword. Here are some more photos of this sweet hoodie, inspired by one of my favorite cartoons of yesteryear: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: animation, awesome, clothing, geeky, nerdy, voltron Darnell Dockett tweets racist jokes. And steals wifi. "Apple has a new device out for Chinese people. The iOpener." Speaking of racist expressions over social media... Here is yet another, coming from Arizona Cardinals linebacker Darnell Dockett. The NFL player, in a fit of inspiration, came up with what he must have thought was a suuuuper clever joke about "Chinese people" and their funny Asian eyes. I actually imagine Dockett giggling to himself while typing away. You can think up these thoughts and just be a private dumbass, but baby, that's not why Twitter was invented. No, Twitter has become a most powerful tool in public dumbassery. Dockett gleefully tweeted it out. When called out for his racist joke, Dockett doubled down, declaring himself "so not racist," promising not to make any "fake apologies," and pretty much admitting that pissing everyone off is "easy and fun as hell." Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: darnell dockett, football, nfl, sports, that's racist, twitter Questlove goes to Japan... and brings tired-ass Asian jokes Questlove and Padma go there with the Ls and Rs [ UPDATE: Questlove has apologized for his comments. See below.] At this point in the year, my brain is shutting down, I'm stuffing my face and settling into a state of personal reflection and Twilight Zone reruns. So when something like this comes across my desk, I'm feeling more annoyed than anything else. We couldn't close out the year without some more ignorant social media s%*t? Questlove and Padma Lakshmi Under Fire for 'Racist' Asian Jokes From personalities I kind of like, no less. Musician Aamir "Questlove" Thompson of The Roots and model/ Top Chef host Padma Lakshmi have recently got into some trouble for comments exchanged on Twitter regarding Quest's travels through Japan, where The Roots are currently on tour. Somewhere along the way, he snapped a photo and just had to throw in the joke about the stereotypical, mixed-up mispronunciation of Ls and Rs. Eye roll. But then his manager Dawn Englehart (who is of Asian descent) and Padma joined in: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: instagram, japan, padma lakshmi, questlove, social media, that's racist 12.23.2013 Beatrock Music 4th Anniversary, December 27 Live performances by The Bar, Rocky Rivera, Otayo Dubb, Power Struggle, Bwan Hey, Bay Area. Time to get down. Beatrock Music, one of the west coast's celebrated independent record labels, comes to Oakland to celebrate their 4-year anniversary with a special concert featuring Bwan, Power Struggle, Otayo Dubb, Rocky Rivera, and The Bar (Prometheus Brown x Bambu). It's going down this Friday, December 27 at The New Parish. Here are some more details: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: bambu, beatrock, bwan, concert, events, music, oakland, otayo dubb, power struggle, prometheus brown, rocky rivera, the bar Giveaway: Enter to win a copy of Chinese in Hollywood New book explores the contributions of Chinese and Chinese Americans to Hollywood film/television Here's something cool for Asian American and Hollywood history buffs... Chinese in Hollywood, by Jenny Cho and the Chinese Historical Society of Southern California, is a new book exploring the contributions of Chinese and Chinese Americans to the film and television industries. From the pioneers of the silent era to present-day personalities, the book is stacked with fascinating vintage photographs from all across Hollywood. The awesome cover image, by the way, is a badass photo of the legendary Bruce Lee demonstrating a kick to superstar Nancy Kwan on the set of the feature film The Wrecking Crew, circa 1968. Want to win a free book? Yes. Everybody likes free stuff. I'm giving away a copy of Chinese in Hollywood. Scroll down to the bottom for details. First, here's some more information about the book: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: books, chinese in hollywood, chssc, giveaway, jenny cho Who will play Ann Curry in the Today show TV movie? Lifetime is adapting a made-for-TV-movie about behind-the-scenes drama at NBC's Today show Maybe it was inevitable. Lifetime is planning a made-for-TV movie based on Brian Stelter's book Top of the Morning, a behind-the-scenes look at the cutthroat world of morning network television talk shows -- including the bitter, headline-making feud between Today hosts Matt Lauer and Ann Curry. Lifetime Adapting Brian Stelter's 'Top of the Morning' as TV Movie According to The Hollywood Reporter, Lifetime is in the early stages of development on adapting Stelter's buzz-worthy, dirt-dishing expose on the the most competitive slot in time television. Much of the book is devoted to the drama around Curry's short-lived stint as co-host on Today before she was bullied and pushed out of her role in part because of her not-so-great chemistry with Lauer. The TV movie will be produced by Tony DiSanto and Liz Gately, which has also produced MTV's Teen Wolf and Ke$ha: My Crazy Beautiful Life. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: ann curry, television, today show Beware the eatery that advertises with Sexy Asian Santas Suzy Wong's House of Yum encourages you to "enjoy Chinese on Christmas day!" Got this passed along to from a sharp-eyed reader in Nashville, who spotted this totally tasteful newspaper ad for Suzy Wong's House of Yum, encouraging folks to "enjoy Chinese on Christmas day!" In case it isn't immediately obvious, or you were perhaps distracted by the Sexy Asian Santas, that's a restaurant. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: advertising, chinese food, christmas, food, sexy asian santas, suzy wong, wtf Assault charges reduced in motorcycle mob attack Prosecutors say that driver Alexian Lien has been healing well since the incident Another update on the case of that crazy Manhattan motorcycle melee involving a pack of bikers who chased down and beat an SUV driver in the street back in September... It looks like some of the assault charges against the bikers, including an off-duty undercover police officer, will be reduced. Charges May Be Reduced for Bikers in Manhattan Highway Beating If you haven't been following the case, here's the abridged version: A motorcyclist, riding with a pack, brake-checks a Range Rover and gets hit. Bikers surround the SUV. The driver, Alexian Lien -- who's with his wife and 2-year-old daughter -- takes off, plowing through several motorcycle riders and sparking a crazy pursuit on the West Side Highway. Driver gets chased down, pulled out of his car and beaten in front of his family. According to prosecutors, Lien has been healing well since the incident, which means that the most severe assault charges, which require permanent disfigurement, would be lessened. However, even with the reduction, the bikers would still face assault charges that could put them in prison for a maximum of 15 years. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: alexian lien, assault, cars, crime, motorcycles, new york city, road rage 12.22.2013 Read These Blogs Open Letter from the Vietnamese Student Association at University of Michigan: "Because the voices of people of color have been and continue to be silenced historically and systematically, we hope to highlight our specific experiences and voices as A/PIAs and contribute to the current dialogues on campus." #NotYourAsianSidekick is Great. Now Can We Get Some Real Social Change? The Twitter hashtag #NotYourAsianSidekick sparked an international online conversation about Asian American feminism. Kai Ma writes that now it's time to take it off the internet and into the streets. Why #NotYourAsianSidekick Started a Social Media Brushfire: Jeff Yang's latest "Tao Jones" column on why the #NotYourAsianSidekick conversation went global, and turning passion into productivity into progress. Reporter Follows Up on a Hard Story and Finds a Really Happy Ending: Two years ago, a Boston Globe reporter wrote a profile about two amazing teens, George and Jimmy Huynh, who were basically raising and supporting themselves through high school. The original story is heartbreaking, but the aftermath is not. When "Life Hacking" Is Really White Privilege: You've seen those lists on how to get more out of life for less. Personal development gurus can get what they want, so why can't you? (Hint: It might be 'cuz you're not white.) IT HAPPENED TO ME: I Was Sexually Harassed Onstage At a Comic Convention Panel: Illustrator Mari Naomi talks about an unfortunate reality of comic convention panels: sexual harassment. Standing With Sangeeta: More about Sangeeta Richard, Indian diplomat Devyani Khobragade's domestic worker whose case has sparked opinions and reactions across the nation. Chinese-American Descendants Uncover Forged Family History: Chinese American families who came to the U.S. during the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 hustled their way in any way they could, including forging papers to enter the U.S. Today, their descendants are still trying to uncover the truth. Senator Daniel Inouye Tribute: Why We Need More Leaders Like Him In Congress Daniel Inouye was the U.S. Senate's second-longest serving member and the first Japanese AMerican to serve in the House of Representatives and the Senate. His life inspired many, and HuffPo serves up a list of a few reasons why we need more leaders like him in Congress. Essays on Roller Coasters: "A few weeks ago, I helped my brother Matthew edit an essay for the seventh grade, a personal narrative about overcoming his fear of roller coasters. Having never ridden a roller coaster with him, I asked Matthew whether any of the story was true." 'No,' he responded, 'I made most of it up to sound more American.'" What Do Famous Celebrities Do In Their Spare Time? Apparently, Writing The Funniest Amazon Reviews On Earth: After retiring from television, George Takei is finding other ways to entertain the world. For the past eight months, he's been writing hilarious product reviews on his Amazon purchases. 15 Signs You Grew Up In A Korean Family: From the embedded smell of kimchi in your refrigerator, to bowl cuts, to fan death, these are the tell-tale signs of a Korean American upbringing. 4 South Asian Actors Who Could Have Been Cast as Freddie Mercury in the Upcoming Biopic: British actor Ben Whishaw is set to play Freddie Mercury in an upcoming biopic of the Queen singer's life. The Aerogram has some suggestions of South Asian actors who could play him. 10 Holiday Jams You Need on Your 2013 Playlist: Hyphen's holiday playlist. Why is There No Filipino-American Music Scene in Orange County? OC Weekly wonders why it's so hard to define a distinct Filipino American music scene in Southern California. The Lab Magazine - YUNA: A short interview with Malaysian songstress Yuna. From Web Comic To Printed Page: The story of how Yumi Sakugawa's "I Think I Am in Friend-Love with You" went from web comic sensation to best-selling book. Q&A With 'Life on Four Strings' Filmmaker Tadashi Nakamura: An interview with Tad Nakamura, who recently won the Audience Award at the Gotham Independent Film Awards in New York for his documentary, Jake Shimabukuro: Life on Four Strings about the Hawaiian ukulele virtuoso. Chris Cheng - Coming out of the gun closet: Chris Cheng, the Season 4 champion of the History Channel's Top Shot, talks about the Second Amendment, his homosexuality, and working at Google. A dean who admits law schools' major flaws: UC Hastings' Frank Wu has opted to slash enrollment at the prestigious law school by 20%, citing the glut of law schools and students. Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: read these blogs 12.21.2013 This Week's Angriest Posts Not necessarily the angriest, just the most viewed. 1. That funny Chinese homework assignment... now with context! 2. Harvard student charged in bomb threat hoax 3. This "China Space Agency" comic strip is racist bulls%*t 4. Tessanne Chin wins The Voice! 5. Hacker gets prison time for trying to change MCAT score 6. When #NotYourAsianSidekick took over Twitter 7. Watch Cole Horibe do his best Bruce Lee impression. Also: Abs. 8. Man sentenced in hate crime attack on Sikh cab driver 9. Arrest of Indian diplomat sparks international outrage 10. Sriracha-flavored Kettle Brand Potato Chips Stay Angry, my friends. Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: angriest posts 12.20.2013 Angry Reader of the Week: Alice Wong What is up, my people? It's time to meet the Angry Reader of the Week, spotlighting you, the very special readers of this website. Over the years, I've been able to connect with a lot of cool folks, and this is a way of showing some appreciation and attention to the people who help make this blog what it is. This week's Angry Reader is Alice Wong. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: alice wong, angry reader of the week Arrest of Indian diplomat sparks international outrage Devyani Khobragade, accused of visa fraud, says she suffered "indignities" In New York City, the arrest of an Indian diplomat on visa charges has sparked international outrage. Devyani Khobragade, India's deputy consul general, says she suffered "indignities" when she handcuffed, subjected to a strip search, cavity search and DNA swabbing, and placed in a holdup "with common criminals and drug addicts" by U.S. authorities despite her "incessant assertions of immunity." Devyani Khobragade Says She Faced Cavity Search In NYC; Outrage In India After Diplomat Arrested Khobragade, who was arrested last Thursday outside of her daughter's school in Manhattan, is accused of submitting false documents to obtain a work visa for her housekeeper, Sangeeta Richard. According to prosecutors, Khobragade claimed on visa application documents she paid her Indian maid $4,500 per month, but that she actually paid her around five hundred dollars a month -- that's around $3.31 per hour. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: crime, devyani khobragade, india, labor, new york city, sangeeta richard, state department 12.19.2013 Cops settle lawsuit with teens left overnight in police van Three teens will each receive $120,000 under a settlement reached with Fort Lee Police Department Remember those guys in New Jersey who got locked up in a police van, forgotten and left overnight in the freezing cold? Three of those teens filed a lawsuit against the Fort Lee Police Department and over a dozen officers, and will receive $120,000 each under a settlement reached with the department. 3 boys locked in Fort Lee police van overnight will split $360,000 Adam Kim, Liam Eisenberg and Kevin Jun were among over dozen teens who were rounded up and placed in a police van when cops broke up a house party in March 2011. According to their complaint, five remained in the van while officers took the others into the station... and never came back. The five teens, who were mostly Asian, were left behind were locked in overnight. They also allege that the cops called them racial epithets. Somebody f*%ked up. So it wasn't a big surprise when these guys sued, alleging that the officers intentionally inflicted emotional distress, were negligent and showed racial bias. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: bad cop, fort lee, lawsuit, new jersey, police, racism, that's racist This "China Space Agency" comic strip is racist bulls%*t Cartoonist Tony Hall dials up the racist jokes to 11 in his latest strip. Got this passed along to me via Twitter... Well, I guess someone thought this was funny. Tony Hall, longtime cartoonist for the UK's Eastern Daily Press, decided to dial up the racism to 11 in his latest strip, set in the "China Space Agency." Buck-tooth caricatures, lazy mock English mispronunciation ("Uh-oh, tellible setback..."), and a planetary rover that inexplicably uses chopsticks to pick up "lock" samples. The comic strip was spotted in the paper by Twitter user @paulcoxon, who snapped a photo and called it out as unacceptable. Or as I'd put it, blatant racist bullshit. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: comics, eastern daily press, that's racist, tony hall, united kingdom Hacker gets prison time for trying to change MCAT score Bosung Shim realllllly wanted to get into medical school. He'll be going to prison instead. Asians behaving badly... MCAT hacker edition! In Virginia, a wannabe medical student was sentenced to three months in prison for hacking into the Association of American Medical Colleges computer system in an attempt to modify his lackluster scores on the Medical College Admission Test. Aspiring medical student sentenced to three months in prison in MCAT hacking case It's clear that 24-year-old Bosung Shim realllllly wanted to get into medical school. He'll be going to prison instead. Shim was sentenced to three months behind bars after pleading guilty to trying to hack into computer systems of the AAMC and the University of Michigan to give himself higher scores and grades. When that didn't work, dude hired other hackers to help him. The computer crimes were apparently just the latest in several schemes Shim hatched to improve his med school prospects, including creating fake college transcripts, recommendation letters and diplomas: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: asians behaving badly, cheating, college, crime, hacker, mcat, medical school 12.18.2013 Chinese Exclusion-era laws still on the books in Florida It seems that the Sunshine State actively wants to stay in the last century. Surprise. This week marks the 70th anniversary of the repeal of the Chinese Exclusion Act, one of our nation's "greatest hits" in its history of anti-Asian racism. The act barred Chinese laborers from entering the United States and prohibited Chinese immigrants from becoming U.S. citizens. Good thing we're now living in the 21st century, where super-racist citizenship laws are totally a thing of the past. Right? Righ... oh yeah, but then there's Florida. 70 Years After U.S. Repeals Chinese Exclusion Act, Fla.'s Still Stands. Upon passage of the Chinese Exclusion Act in 1882, more than thirty states followed the federal government's lead, passing laws and amendments that excluded Asian Americans from the full rights of citizenship. Those unconstitutional provisions have since been repealed in every state -- except Florida, where the "Alien Land Law" is still on the books. The statute, approved by voters in 1923, bars Asian citizens from owning property. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: alien land law, chinese exclusion act, florida, history, immigration, that's florida, that's racist Sriracha-flavored Kettle Brand Potato Chips These exist now. It's been a bad few weeks for Sriracha fans. We've been following the ongoing saga of manufacturer Huy Fong Foods and the struggle to get their signature spicy sauce to the people. Between the production plant shutdown and bottle shipments halted until next month -- by order of the health department -- strange forces seem to be conspiring against our beloved rooster. We need something to get us through these dark times. Enter Sriracha-flavored Kettle Brand Potato Chips. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: food, get this, hot sauce, potato chips, sriracha, sriracha is awesome, srirachapocalypse Tessanne Chin wins The Voice! Watch a rundown of the Jamaican songstress' star-making performances Huge congratulations to Tessanne Chin, this season's winner of The Voice. But thumbs down to the individual who straight-up spoiled the outcome for me before the finale aired here on the West Coast. Through an incredible run on NBC's popular singing competition, week after week, Tessanne's massive voice took her all the way to the top. I didn't actually follow the season very closely, but I did catch her tremendous 4-chair-spinning performance during the blind auditions. From the start, this Jamaican songstress made it pretty clear to everyone that she had the goods to win it all. And dammit, she did. Here are some highlights from Tessanne's star-making run on The Voice, starting with that audition: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: music, television, tessanne chin, the voice Watch Cole Horibe do his best Bruce Lee impression. Also: Abs. So You Think You Can Dance star plays the martial arts icon in David Henry Hwang's Kung Fu Oh snap. You saw him on the TV dance competition So You Think You Can Dance? Now see Cole Horibe channeling Bruce Lee in the world premiere of David Henry Hwang's new play Kung Fu, opening at the Signature Theatre in February. The show blends dance, martial arts, Chinese opera and drama to tell the story of the international icon, from troubled Hong Kong youth to martial arts legend. Some first-look photos dropped a couple of weeks ago. Now here's a brief video from the photo shoot, where we get to see just a little bit of Cole getting into character, nunchucks and all: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: abs, bruce, cole horibe, dance, david henry hwang, kung fu, martial arts, so you think you can dance, theatre, video Relief 2 Recovery: Temporary Protected Status for Filipinos Sign the petition calling the U.S. to designate the Philippines with Temporary Protected Status Typhoon Haiyan was one of the most powerful storms ever recorded, wreaking devastation and tragedy that continue to take its toll on the Philippines, with 1.9 million homeless and more than 600,000 displaced. While the United States is directing much-needed food and relief to the region, another form of humanitarian aid would be to designate the Philippines with Temporary Protected Status, which would stop deportations and avoid the burden the absorbing thousands of its nationals currently abroad during this national emergency, while empowering Filipino immigrants here in the U.S. to more effectively send aid back to their home country. Relief 2 Recovery; Temporary Protected Status for Filipinos This MoveOn.org petition by Relief 2 Recovery urges the U.S. government to designate the Philippines for temporary protected status (TPS) under Section 244B of the Immigration and Nationality Act, with consideration to Typhoon Haiyan and ongoing disaster relief efforts. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: deportation, immigration, petition, philippines, relief 2 recovery, temporary protected status, typhoon haiyan, typhoon relief 12.17.2013 That funny Chinese homework assignment... now with context! Turns out, it was supposed to be written in Chinese This blog has recently received a spate of traffic from a Distractify list, 38 Test Answers That Are 100% Wrong But Totally Genius At The Same Time, which links back to this amusing November 2010 post, featuring a viral photo of a grade school homework assignment that a student seemingly took quite literally. According to the assignment: "You are to assume the role of a Chinese immigrant in 1870 and write a letter home describing your experiences. Your letter should include the following: your contributions and experiences in the West." What folks found funny is that the student went the extra mile and wrote out the letter in Chinese -- just like an 1870s immigrant would. But it turns out, that's exactly what the student was supposed to do. I just heard from Anna Janssen, the former elementary teacher who came up with this assignment, circa spring 2008, for an English/Chinese dual language class. Owing to the language disparity in the class -- some were new immigrants from China with no English proficiency, while others were raised in America with minimal written Chinese, and everything in between -- the students were free to write the essay in English or Chinese. And yes, Ms. Janssen speaks Mandarin. Here's part of the message she sent me: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: education, funny, homework, language, schools Harvard student charged in bomb threat hoax Sophomore Eldo Kim really really really did not want to take his government final Asian behaving badly... Harvard fake bomb threat edition! COME ON. It had to be an Asian guy. At Harvard University, a student has been arrested for phoning in a fake bomb threat in order to get out of final exams. Harvard Sophomore Charged in Bomb Threat 20-year-old Eldo Kim, a Harvard sophomore, was charged in connection with an unfounded bomb threat against several campus buildings in an idiotic attempt to avoid a final exam scheduled to be held on Monday. The final he was apparently trying to bomb scare his way out of? Government 1368: The Politics of American Education, scheduled for 9:00am in Emerson -- one of four buildings named as "targets" in an anonymous email to the Harvard University Police Department, university officials, and the president of the Harvard Crimson. From the affidavit of an FBI assigned to the case: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: asians behaving badly, bomb threat, college, crime, eldo kim, harvard 12.16.2013 CAAM presents Memories to Light: Asian American Home Movies Submit your old home movies to the Center for Asian American Media Earlier this fall, the Center for Asian American Media launched Memories to Light: Asian American Home Movies, a project to collect and digitize home movie reels and share the stories they tell to a broad public. The initiative gives an inside look into the overlooked and traditionally private lives of everyday Asian Americans spanning six decades, from the 1920s to 1980s. Got some home movies/memories to share? Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: caam, call for submissions, home movies, memories to light New Music: A Better Part of Me by Connie Lim Album release show January 11 at Hotel Cafe in Los Angeles Really enjoying A Better Part of Me, the freshly dropped new album from indie Los Angeles singer/songwriter Connie Lim. With rich vocals and soaring pop hooks, Connie describes the nine-track album, fan-funded through Kickstarter, as a tribute to friends who have passed but "continue to bring out the better parts of me." Here's a preview of the album: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: concert, connie lim, events, los angeles, music Follow your local police on Twitter, Facebook... and Weibo? Alhambra PD is the first U.S. law enforcement agency to sign up for the popular Chinese micro-blogging site Chances are, your local law enforcement agency has a Facebook page or a Twitter account letting you know about the latest crime alerts or safety announcements. Big deal. Is your police department on Weibo? Last week, in a unique effort to reach the city's Chinese immigrants, the Alhambra Police Department became the first law enforcement agency in the United States to open an official account on Weibo, the Chinese Twitter. Alhambra PD is first US police department to launch Chinese Twitter (Weibo) account According to the 2010 U.S. Census, about 53 percent of Alhambra's population is Asian, and of the city's 57,300 residents, about 30,000 are Chinese. While Facebook and Twitter are blocked in mainland China, Weibo is one of the most widely used social media tools in the country. No doubt, its reach extends to Chinese communities here in the U.S. This will be first time the Alhambra Police Department releases official information in a language other than English. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: alhambra, police, social media, southern california, weibo Kristina Wong's Wong Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest DVD A comedy about depression Whether it's professing obsessive love for Jeremy Lin on Totally Biased, or declaring "Suck it, white ladies!" in the most awesome TV interview ever, writer/performance artist/provocateur is full-time awesome. So if you're a Kristina Wong superfan like me, then you should check out the feature film version of Wong Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, her critically-acclaimed one-woman show about suicide and depression among Asian American women, now available on DVD and VOD from Cinema Libre. Watch Kristina take the stage and use her show to cure all the mentally ill and suicidal Asian American women in just 85 minutes. Okay, so that's kind of a lofty goal. According to a report from the American Psychological Association, suicide is the second leading cause of death among Asian American women aged 15-34. With this sobering statistic in mind, Kristina tackles taboos and says 'suck it' to stigmas, crafting a razor-sharp, insightful and hilarious show that examines the phenomena and stereotypes associated with Asian American women. Here's the trailer to Wong Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: dvd, get this, kristina wong, movies, wong flew over the cuckoo's nest Angry Gift Guide: Bruce Lee Playing Cards For the baddest game of Go Fish ever All right, my die hard Bruce fans. Just when you think they've made every conceivable kind of cool Bruce Lee gear, we've got these awesome, officially licensed Bruce Lee Playing Cards by Dan & Dave. Handsomely designed in partnership with Bruce Lee Enterprises, the back of the cards feature a design signifying the Year of the Dragon, while the faces of the cards are a familiar shade of yellow and black, inspired by the iconic jumpsuit word by Lee in Game of Death. Each card features a different philosophical quote from Bruce Lee's teachings, except for the Aces, which have been left blank to symbolize a free mind. Bold. Watch this video to see a dude do some skillful trickery with the cards: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: angry gift guide, bruce, playing cards When #NotYourAsianSidekick took over Twitter Hashtag sets off a massive conversation about race, feminism and stereotypes If you're active on Twitter, then no doubt you've seen the #NotYourAsianSidekick hashtag that sprouted up, quickly became a global conversation that lasted most of Sunday, and as I write this on Monday morning, is still a top trending topic. The hashtag conversation, started by writer/activist Suey Park, was an attempt to create a space for intelligent, provocative dialogue about Asian American feminism and stereotypes. It was wildly successful. Huge props to the folks who set it off and kept the momentum going. The conversation ranged from confronting patriarchy in the Asian American community, to addressing racism in white feminist spaces, as well as ugly, persistent stereotypes about Asian sexuality. It was opportunity for folks to join in and speak out on issues rarely discussed and often ignored in even the most seemingly progressive spaces. If you haven't checked out #NotYourAsianSidekick, catch up on the conversation on Twitter. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: #notyourasiansidekick, feminism, twitter Man sentenced in hate crime attack on Sikh cab driver 50-year-old Jamie Larson sentenced to 40 months in federal prison Last week in Seattle, a man was sentenced to 40 months in federal prison for viciously beating a Sikh cab driver last year while making racist statements about Muslims during a brutal hate attack. Federal Way man gets 40 months in attack on Sikh cabdriver 50-year-old Jamie Larson, described as a "blackout-binge alcholic," brutally attacked taxi driver Kashmira Hothi, who is an immigrant from India and happens to be Sikh, not Muslim -- not that it f*%king mattered to this asshole -- in a drunken, racist assault. He kicked, punched and stomped on Hothi while pulling out part of his beard and making disparaging, hateful remarks about Islam and Muslims. According to prosecutors, Hothi was hospitalized for eight days with a concussion and other injuries. He couldn't work for two months and required months of physical therapy because of his injuries. It all started one day in October 2012, when Larson was found passed out drunk in the bushes: Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: assault, hate crime, seattle, sikh, taxi 12.15.2013 Read These Blogs Orangetree's Rainbow Flag Fright: Irvine's Orangetree neighborhood was the picture-perfect example of Orange County suburban tranquility... until Dr. Mary Pham added color by hanging an LGBT Pride Flag prominently above her home, unearthing some serious bigotry and intolerance. Sex, lies and the Internet: The tale of Lena Chen: During her freshman year at Harvard, Lena Chen started a blog called Sex and the Ivy, and someone used the information she posted to make her life and those around her a living hell. Here's her story, and others who were aggressively harassed for "blogging while female." Why Young Asian-Americans Are Fleeing Hollywood: In the past, Asian American actors and actresses haved used Asia as a launching pad to break into the industry and then continue their careers in the U.S. These days, however, an increasing number decide to remain in Asia. Where's the Diversity? The NY Times Top 10 Bestsellers List: Lee and Low Books looked at the New York Times Top 10 Bestsellers list for all 52 weeks of 2012. The results? A consistent lack of diversity. Lee and Low interviews author Charles Yu about this statistic and his work. The Meaning of Mandela to an Asian (American) Woman: Former Hyphen editor and Thick Dumpling Skin co-founder Lisa Lee reflects on her childhood years in South Africa and what Nelson Mandela meant to her. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: read these blogs 12.14.2013 This Week's Angriest Posts Not necessarily the angriest, just the most viewed. 1. Lorde has an Asian boyfriend. Get the f%*k over it, internet. 2. Shh. A simple tip for talking about race. 3. Darren Criss and Lea Salonga lead a sing-along 4. FDNY sends ambulance bill addressed to "Unknown Asian" 5. Sriracha shipments halted by the health department 6. Five Reasons Why Asian American & Pacific Islander (AAPI) Poverty Remains Invisible 7. Student dies in fraternity hazing ritual 8. George Takei shows off his badass push-up skills on Conan 9. Watch Jane Lui's Crazy Fun Cover of TLC's "Waterfalls" 10. Man caught urinating on Komagata Maru memorial Stay Angry, my friends. Have a great weekend. Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: angriest posts 12.13.2013 Angry Reader of the Week: Michael Kang All right! It's that time again. Gather 'round because it's time to meet the Angry Reader of the Week, spotlighting you, the very special readers of this website. Over the years, I've been able to connect with a lot of cool folks, and this is a way of showing some appreciation and attention to the people who help make this blog what it is. This week's Angry Reader is Michael Kang. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: angry reader of the week, michael kang Chinatown street re-named for Pvt. Danny Chen A section of Elizabeth Street will be co-named "Private Danny Chen Way" This week in New York City, the City Council approved to co-name a Chinatown street "Private Danny Chen Way," memorializing the Chinese American Army private who was found dead in October 2011 after enduring intolerable racial hazing and harassment from his fellow soldiers while serving in Afghanistan. City Council Approves Co-Naming of 'Danny Chen Way' on Elizabeth Street A section Elizabeth Street between Canal and Bayard in Chinatown, where Pvt. Chen was born and raised, will be henceforth known as "Danny Chen Way." City Council member Margaret Chin called the designation's approval "a vote for tolerance, acceptance, and above all, respect." Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: chinatown, danny chen, manhattan, new york city 12.12.2013 Be Water, My Friend T-Shirt by HOMAGE "Empty your mind, be formless, shapeless -- like water." Way excited about this new Be Water, My Friend t-shirt design that just dropped from HOMAGE. Featuring the master himself, and one of his most famous quotes, it's an inspired shirt for any Bruce fan. The design is okay, but I'm mainly hyped because it's Homage. I'm a fan. The company usually specializes in vintage-style sports-themed shirts (with a lot of love for Ohio), but they sometimes also delve into pop culture icons like Bruce. No joke, I own like seven Homage shirts. They're quality, comfortable, and look awesome. Read more » Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook FILE UNDER: be water, bruce, get this, homage, t-shirts Newer Posts Older Posts Home Subscribe to: Posts (Atom) angry archive 2014 (5) January (5) 2013 (1278) December (89) November (104) October (106) September (123) August (114) July (111) June (97) May (91) April (109) March (100) February (116) January (118) 2012 (1662) December (93) November (133) October (141) September (138) August (165) July (144) June (175) May (139) April (112) March (132) February (118) January (172) 2011 (1977) December (117) November (170) October (165) September (166) August (143) July (170) June (170) May (157) April (148) March (189) February (168) January (214) 2010 (2530) December (196) November (218) October (191) September (118) August (248) July (222) June (239) May (256) April (226) March (207) February (187) January (222) 2009 (2298) December (160) November (180) October (205) September (227) August (211) July (208) June (211) May (181) April (216) March (188) February (151) January (160) 2008 (1565) December (144) November (137) October (139) September (106) August (141) July (137) June (131) May (120) April (140) March (106) February (149) January (115) 2007 (1427) December (113) November (133) October (111) September (59) August (100) July (105) June (105) May (118) April (116) March (135) February (151) January (181) 2006 (44) December (31) November (2) September (1) August (5) July (2) March (3) 2005 (1) January (1) 2004 (3) October (1) September (1) July (1) 2001 (1) February (1) search this blog Loading... angriest posts Lorde has an Asian boyfriend. Get the f%*k over it, internet. Shh. A simple tip for talking about race. Darren Criss and Lea Salonga lead a sing-along Reverse racism exists. All you need is a time machine. That funny Chinese homework assignment... now with context! FDNY sends ambulance bill addressed to "Unknown Asian" Questlove goes to Japan... and brings tired-ass Asian jokes Sriracha shipments halted by the health department When #NotYourAsianSidekick took over Twitter Sriracha has a message for its neighbors in Irwindale Buy This things to click on twitter Tweets by @angryasianman facebook instagram bruce bills to pay © 2001-2013 ANGRY ASIAN MAN. Powered by Blogger. 
