Paid Notice -  Deaths

 TODMAN, FRANCES B. - Paid Death Notice - NYTimes.com Try a Digital Subscription campaign: inyt2013_bar1_digi_euro_3LFL3 -- 221762, creative: bar1_digi_euro_3LFL3 -- 353957, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/classifieds, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help Home Page Today's Paper Video Most Popular Edition: U.S. / Global Search All NYTimes.com World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Paid Notice: Deaths TODMAN, FRANCES B. Published: January 27, 2008 TODMAN--Frances B., on Wednesday, January 23 in New York City. Devoted wife of the late William S. Todman, Sr., she is survived by her daughter Lisa, her son William, and her grandchildren Philip, Rebecca and William. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. The funeral will be private. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Mid South Chapter (www.msmidsouth.org) or the Southern California Chapter (nationalmssociety.org/ cal) of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. Subscribe to the International New York Times newspaper and save up to 65% House hunting near ... the Jura Mountains Also in Real Estate » A green oasis at the heart of a concrete jungle A table-to-farm pioneer   Inside NYTimes.com Business » For Fund Investors, the Dangers of Rarefied Air Television » Detecting a New Season Sunday Review » Editorial: The Civil Rights of Children The Obama administration speaks out against zero tolerance disciplinary policies that disproportionately affect minorities. Fashion & Style » Weddings & Celebrations Sunday Review » The Strip: The Bibbsy Twins in ‘Identity Crisis’ Travel » 52 Places to Go in 2014 Book Review » The Mind’s Jailer Theater » Vanya and Sonia and Abs and Pecs N.Y. / Region » Women at the Pulpit Sunday Review » Op-Ed: Ariel Sharon, a Warrior Who Could Have Made Peace He was the one Israeli leader who could have reached a settlement with the Palestinians. Magazine » The Flying Tomato Wants a New Name Sunday Review » Exposures: The Mixed Marriage © 2014 The New York Times Company Site Map Privacy Your Ad Choices Advertise Terms of Sale Terms of Service Work With Us RSS Help Contact Us Site Feedback 
