The spin we can expect from Obama at the UN | Fox News
 Fox News Digital Network   Fox News   Fox Business   uReport   Fox News Radio   Fox News Latino   Fox Nation   Fox News Insider Login Account You're logged in as   Profile Logout Search Site Listen to Fox News Radio Live › On Air Now › On Air Personalities ›   Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports On Air Previous Slide Next Slide Opinion Home Michael Goodwin Karl Rove John Lott Peter Morici Andrew Napolitano Liz Peek Kelly Wright's 'Beyond the Dream' The spin we can expect from Obama at the UN By Anne BayefskyPublished September 24, 2012 FoxNews.com AP President Obama is fond of boasting about his foreign policy prowess and is anxious to use his UN General Assembly address on September 25 to amplify that claim.  His competence took a hit this past week after he pontificated on CBS – less than 24 hours after the murder of our Libyan ambassador – that as president he’d “learned” you have “to make sure that the statements that you make are backed up by the facts.”  It turned out that he didn’t have the facts, but he and his officials kept yakking anyway. One of those sent out to face the fire, UN Ambassador Susan Rice, will be front and center at the American desk in the Assembly Hall as the president makes his UN pitch.  Rice’s implacable insistence that the ‘video-done-it’ has been widely ridiculed, and is now disputed by the White House itself.  In fact, the administration’s video-fixated apologies appear to have been fueling the flames. So last Friday, during a television appearance Daily Beast columnist and Fox News political analyst Kirsten Powers asked the right question: “Why was Susan Rice lying?” The answer will be clearer after hearing the president’s speech, but the answer – to borrow a word from White House Press Secretary Jay Carney – is self-evident.  She was taking her cue from the top. For over three years, the president has burnished his international affairs credentials via a steady stream of misinformation, much of it generated from his diplomatic corps.  Bogus UN “success” stories can therefore be expected to factor into tomorrow’s oration. Here are some possible chestnuts. There’s the one about the glories of the UN Human Rights Council – which 2012 state department fact sheets say is an “effective and credible multilateral forum for promoting and protecting human rights.” Given that the UN’s top human rights body counts Cuba, China, Russia and Saudi Arabia among its members, and starting in 2013, Venezuela, Pakistan and Kazakhstan, it isn’t obvious to Americans how this move promotes or protects their values. Enter Esther Brimmer, Assistant Secretary of State for International Organizations and storyteller extraordinaire.  Addressing a crowd in Washington, D.C. on September 18, 2012, she said: “[S]ince 2009, the United States and our partners on the Human Rights Council have expanded international mechanisms to monitor and protect core human rights, including freedom of expression…” Actually, the Council has ceased adopting a substantive resolution on freedom of opinion and expression altogether. While the Canadians shepherded such a resolution through the UN Human Rights Commission (the Council’s predecessor) for twelve successive years to 2004, team Obama agreed to set aside the detailed free speech resolution after October 2009 and turn its attention to a new annual UN standard-bearer. The name of today’s American-backed paradigm?  “Combating intolerance, negative stereotyping and stigmatization of, and discrimination, incitement to violence and violence against, persons based on religion or belief.” Needless, to say, Obama officials cut that raw deal with the Organization of Islamic Cooperation. Many months later in 2011, Obama diplomats begged none other than the Egyptian government to help them resurrect a substantive freedom of opinion and expression resolution.  Egypt refused. Another tale concerns Israel, and the Human Rights Council’s ongoing attempt to delegitimize the Jewish state.  With an agenda reserving one item on Israel and one item on the remaining 192 UN states, 40% of all condemnations directed at Israel alone, and a new witch hunt (aka “fact-finding mission”) launched last March, Israel ceased all cooperation with the Council this year and asked the Obama administration to stop validating the institution. Instead, the administration decided to run for a second three-year term while dispatching Susan Rice and her state department colleagues during election season to Jewish venues in Florida.  Clearly a pro at her game, here’s Ambassador Rice last spring:  “Not a day goes by — not one — when my colleagues and I don’t work hard to defend Israel’s security and legitimacy at the United Nations.” Then there’s the success story about UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay, reappointed in May with the approval of the Obama administration.  Opening the Council’s latest session on September 10, 2012 she discussed stoning in Iran in the same paragraph as executions in the United States.  The woman who questioned the legality of killing Usama bin Laden, went on to tell the world “I am distressed by recent executions carried out in Belarus, China,… Saudi Arabia and the United States.” One more foreign policy charade which is sure to make its way into the President’s General Assembly speech – more finger-wagging at Iran.  Be prepared for the familiar lingo about “strongest sanctions ever” – albeit that beefy Security Council hasn’t imposed a new round of sanctions on Iran in over two years.  We might also hear a variation of this oft-repeated formula for getting tough on Iran:  “nuclear weapons are really really bad, but the door is still open if Ahmadinejad should take my hand and walk through it.”   President Obama will also remind the nuclear weapon have-nots in the crowd that he has consistently placed the nuclear disarmament of the United States and other democracies on a par with the evils of nuclear proliferation by genocidal dictators. So why did Susan Rice lie? Because President Obama fully intends to appear before the UN General Assembly and tell the world his priorities are: preserving American values like free speech not undermining it, educating merely misinformed Muslim rioters not appeasing them, strengthening alliances not weakening our allies, protecting American security not disabling our defenses, and assuring American voters that our “tiny” enemies are on the run and we’re now well-loved notwithstanding a spontaneous murder here and there. In other words, she is not alone. Anne Bayefsky is director of the Touro Institute on Human Rights and the Holocaust. Follow her on Twitter  @AnneBayefsky.   Print   Email   Share   Comments Recommend Tweet Related Stories Ambassador Rice spends Sunday reinforcing White House position that Middle East violence was 'spontaneous' Gibbs defends administration's response to deadly attack, says not ‘misleading’ Obama, Romney campaigns ease off Libya debate as story changes Share This Article View Article You must login to comment. View Article Advertisement Follow Fox News Opinion Get Our Free Newsletter Newsletter Signup   Trending in Opinion 1 Georgia cops buy taxi fare for man who walked 29 miles to court on frigid day 2 Sebelius, Congress should take ObamaCare bailout off the table 3 A-Rod -- a victim of hubris in a modern-day Greek tragedy 4 If you knew who was behind “Close-Gitmo” push, you'd be shocked 5 The Tea Party movement vs. the IRS in 2014 See all trends › Investing Investing › Marijuana stocks a buy or a drag on your portfolio? Goldman Raises Price Target on Twitter to $65 Why I’m buying back Ford in my portfolio: Levine Fox Nation ObamaCare Death Spiral Begins: Health Care Plans Attracting More Older, Less Healthy January 13, 2014 Hillary's Aides Joked About Ted Kennedy's Death January 13, 2014 HHS: 90 Percent of People on Exchanges Will Get Federal Funding January 13, 2014 Obama Plans to 'Mobilize' Americans Around a 'National Mission' January 13, 2014 Hillary's Hit List January 13, 2014 Advertisement Also on the web Generic Beauty Buys -- Savings Experiment Single-Serve Coffee Savings -- Savings Experiment Gov. Christie Staff Learns Deleted Email Rarely Goes Away After Market: Early Earnings Season Warnings Send Stocks Stumbling U.S. Runs Record Budget Surplus in December Telecom Equipment a Bright Spot in Down Market Selloff Leaves Nearly All Indexes in the Red in ‘14 Storenvy to Charge for Marketplace Sales in 2014 How Scammers Steal Your Tax Return Auto Part Makers Race Higher Italian P.M. to press for updated EU-Mexico accord Honduras investigating case of $7.2 mn seized in Panama Immigrant students urge NY governor to fund aid program Half the children in Denver shelters are Latino Fighting All The Way: A-Rod Sues League And Players' Union Over His 162-Game Suspension Sections Home Video Politics U.S. Opinion Entertainment Tech Science Health Travel Lifestyle World Sports Weather Shows A Healthy You & Carol Alt America's News HQ America's Newsroom Cavuto Fox Files Fox News Sunday Fox & Friends First Fox & Friends Fox & Friends Weekend Geraldo at Large Greta Hannity Happening Now Huckabee   Justice with Judge Jeanine Media Buzz Red Eye w/ Gutfeld Shepard Smith Reporting Special Report Specials The Cost of Freedom The Five The Journal Editorial Report The Kelly File The O' Reilly Factor The Real Story War Stories Tools Live Video Trending uReport Newsletters Alerts Blogs Mobile Podcasts Radio Fox News Store Apps & Downloads About Careers College Students Fox Around the World Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Contact Us Email Newsroom FAQ Media Relations Follow   Facebook   Twitter   Google+   LinkedIn   RSS   Newsletters This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 
