Art in Review -  Mark Grotjahn -- Blue Paintings, Light to Dark, One Through Ten - Review - NYTimes.com
 Try a Digital Subscription campaign: inyt2013_bar1_digi_euro_3LFL3 -- 221762, creative: bar1_digi_euro_3LFL3 -- 353957, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help Home Page Today's Paper Video Most Popular Edition: U.S. / Global Search All NYTimes.com World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Art in Review; Mark Grotjahn -- Blue Paintings, Light to Dark, One Through Ten By BRIDGET L. GOODBODY Published: February 16, 2007 Anton Kern Gallery 532 West 20th Street, Chelsea Through Feb. 28 Mark Grotjahn's title for his show of new paintings describes it accurately. The artist has hung nine paintings in a semicircle of blue that begins and ends in darkness. The 10th painting hangs alone, altarlike, in the back room. The cycle starts with inky midnight blue and fades into a royalish blue at the center before circling back to black. All the paintings have Mr. Grotjahn's signature ''butterfly'' composition. He uses this term because their carefully measured surfaces (so thickly painted that they appear sculptured) are covered in hundreds of fine lines that emerge from a spot at the core and spread to the canvases' edges in a fanlike pattern. The point where the center lines converge radiates a hint of orange, catching the viewer's eye and engaging it in a push-me, pull-you vision game. The glowing orange spot pulls your gaze into the center of the painting (as in a Renaissance painting by, say, Masaccio), while the linear striations that compose the ''wings'' lead it back out to the peripheries. Because of the subtle ways Mr. Grotjahn deploys color and line to play with perspective, it isn't immediately obvious that the lines originate not solely from one point, but also from an inch-wide stripe that splits the painting down the middle -- just like the vertical band in Barnett Newman's zip paintings. Clement Greenberg, referring to Newman's zips, once wrote that ''only the color-deaf focus on the stripes.'' Like Newman's paintings, Mr. Grotjahn's emanate an otherworldly light. But his use of the butterfly form turns them into a cruciform structure, suggesting, in a literal versus metaphoric way, that God is present in the details. BRIDGET L. GOODBODY Subscribe to the International New York Times newspaper and save up to 65% Watch Now: In love and traffic Also in Video » Saying farewell to a rock icon Prepping food and their future   Inside NYTimes.com N.Y. / Region » On an East Village Street, Continuity Fights Change U.S. » High-Speed Trains in California Hit a Snag Opinion » Op-Ed: Shinzo Abe’s Profane Pilgrimage The prime minister’s visit to a shrine for Japan’s war dead has caused alarm among its regional neighbors. Technology » A Makeover for Maps Opinion » Op-Ed: New York, the Silicon City Television » A Case of Bad Cop, Good-Looking Cop Booming » I May Be 50, but Don’t Call Me a Boomer Health » When Doctors ‘Google’ Their Patients World » China Destroys 6 Tons of Ivory Opinion » Cleansing National Sins Room for Debate considers whether painful histories must be confronted before they can be overcome. Books » Giving Voice, and Finding Her Own Opinion » Draft: Forgetting It All Without reliable memory, I’m a composer with notes but no melody, a sculptor with nothing but crumbled medium. © 2014 The New York Times Company Site Map Privacy Your Ad Choices Advertise Terms of Sale Terms of Service Work With Us RSS Help Contact Us Site Feedback 
