THE CAUCUS  -  TV WATCH -  Convention Viewership - NYTimes.com
 Try a Digital Subscription campaign: inyt2013_bar1_digi_euro_3LFL3 -- 221762, creative: bar1_digi_euro_3LFL3 -- 353957, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1 Log In Register Now Help Home Page Today's Paper Video Most Popular Edition: U.S. / Global Search All NYTimes.com World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos THE CAUCUS | TV WATCH; Convention Viewership By KITTY BENNETT Published: June 30, 2008 As political conventions have become more scripted, ratings have declined, falling by half in the last 40 years. And while the conventions have never had the draw of an American Idol finale, they still typically attract more viewers than the Summer Olympics, another spectacle that draws Americans to their television screens every four years. GRAPH: TELEVISION RATINGS (Source: Nielsen Media Research); Graph showing the percentage of all televisions tuned to the Republican and Democratic conventions and the Summer Olympics. Subscribe to the International New York Times newspaper and save up to 65% Sex, scandal and a songsmith Also on NYTimes.com Photo project breaks barriers in Morocco Search the Global Arts Guide   Inside NYTimes.com N.Y. / Region » On an East Village Street, Continuity Fights Change U.S. » High-Speed Trains in California Hit a Snag Opinion » Op-Ed: Shinzo Abe’s Profane Pilgrimage The prime minister’s visit to a shrine for Japan’s war dead has caused alarm among its regional neighbors. Technology » A Makeover for Maps Opinion » Op-Ed: New York, the Silicon City Television » A Case of Bad Cop, Good-Looking Cop Booming » I May Be 50, but Don’t Call Me a Boomer Health » When Doctors ‘Google’ Their Patients World » China Destroys 6 Tons of Ivory Opinion » Cleansing National Sins Room for Debate considers whether painful histories must be confronted before they can be overcome. Books » Giving Voice, and Finding Her Own Opinion » Draft: Forgetting It All Without reliable memory, I’m a composer with notes but no melody, a sculptor with nothing but crumbled medium. © 2014 The New York Times Company Site Map Privacy Your Ad Choices Advertise Terms of Sale Terms of Service Work With Us RSS Help Contact Us Site Feedback 
