Dallas Cowboys sit atop NFC East after beating Raiders - NFL.com
 Search Welcome, {user} MANAGE MY ACCOUNT My Profile My Rewards Log Out Link Facebook Link Twitter Loading… Sign In | Register Fantasy Football News & Media Video Scores Schedules Standings Stats Watch NFL Games Live Tickets Shop Fans health & safety En Español Mobile NFL Network Around the League         Dallas Cowboys sit atop NFC East after beating Raiders By Dan Hanzus Around the League Writer Published: Nov. 28, 2013 at 08:18 p.m. Updated: Nov. 28, 2013 at 09:19 p.m. Friend(s) Email Your Email Send Email By Dan Hanzus Cowboys alone atop NFC East after beating Raiders Lions dominate Packers in lopsided victory More Columns > Do you believe in the Dallas Cowboys? Answer honestly, and rest easy in the knowledge that there's no wrong answer. At least, where we stand right now. The Cowboys have been hot and cold all season, making them one of the NFL's great mysteries as we approach the final month of the regular season. Thanksgiving provided little in the way of clarity. The Cowboys beat the Oakland Raiders, 31-24, winning for the second time in four days. The Cowboys are now 7-5 and sit alone atop the NFC East with four games remaining. The Philadelphia Eagles can move back into a tie Sunday with a win at home against the Arizona Cardinals. Of course, it shouldn't be lost that Dallas fell 14 points behind the Raiders on Thursday with less than two minutes to play in the second quarter. This was an uneven performance against a middling team. It's hard to predict where the Cowboys go from here, starting next week against the Chicago Bears at Soldier Field. Perhaps the brightest aspect of the day was the true emergence of Dallas' maligned running game. Using an intriguing combination of DeMarco Murray and Lance Dunbar, Dallas rushed for 144 yards, with Murray scoring three times. It's the most yards the Cowboys have rushed for all season and just the second time in 12 games they've gone over 100 yards. Dunbar was unable to finish the game after he suffered a hyperextended knee in the fourth quarter. Owner Jerry Jones said after the game the injury could cost the back one to two weeks. The Cowboys surely feel good about their chances entering December. They control their own destiny, have a manageable schedule and have a showdown with the Eagles waiting in Week 17. If this all sounds familiar, it should. Week 17 and the Cowboys have not been on good terms in recent years. They soon will get another chance to flip the script. The " Around The League Podcast" is available on iTunes! Click here to listen and subscribe. Previous Article Next Article "Steelers sidestep..." #{comments_count} Comment#{comments_plural} | #{recommendations_count} Recommendation#{recommendations_plural} | E-mail Fan Discussion View all comments Previous Article Next Article Latest What we learned: Ravens take control of sixth seed Steelers season all but over as Ravens lift off Steelers' Le'Veon Bell examined for concussion Mike Tomlin narrowly misses Jacoby Jones on return Dallas Cowboys sit atop NFC East after beating Raiders Matt McGloin makes progress in third Raiders start Detroit Lions bash Green Bay Packers for division lead Can Green Bay Packers still make the NFC playoffs? John Fox returning to Denver Broncos on Monday Chip Kelly: Philadelphia Eagles run 'see-coast offense' Subscribe More Posts Photo Gallery Good eatin' Thanksgiving Day means two things; turkey and pigskin. Check out the best photos from three Thanksgiving Day games. View NFL.com Official Tweets {from_user}: {text} MORE TWEETS Back to Top Information Contact Us FAQ | Rule Book Public Relations Jobs: League | Team Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Initiatives NFL Rush Play 60 In the Community NFL Auction Media Info NFL Communications Media Kit Media Guides Player Services NFL Health & Safety NFL Player Care Player Engagement More NFL Sites NFL Youth Tackle USA Football NFL International NFL On Location NFL Extra Points   Pro Football Hall of Fame NFL Ticket Exchange NFL Shop Licensing © 2013 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League. NFL footage © NFL Productions LLC.   Bills Dolphins Patriots Jets Ravens Bengals Browns Steelers Texans Colts Jaguars Titans Broncos Chiefs Raiders Chargers Cowboys Giants Eagles Redskins Bears Lions Packers Vikings Falcons Panthers Saints Buccaneers Cardinals Rams 49ers Seahawks © 2013 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League. NFL footage © NFL Productions LLC. PRIVACY POLICY | Terms & Conditions NFL News CONTENT 15 
