Cleveland Browns players unhappy with turnover - NFL.com
 Search Welcome, {user} MANAGE MY ACCOUNT My Profile My Rewards Log Out Link Facebook Link Twitter Loading… Sign In | Register Fantasy Football News & Media Video Scores Schedules Standings Stats Watch NFL Games Live Tickets Shop Fans health & safety En Español Mobile NFL Network Around the League         Cleveland Browns players unhappy with turnover By Marc Sessler Around the League Writer Published: Dec. 29, 2013 at 11:18 p.m. Updated: Dec. 30, 2013 at 01:10 a.m. Friend(s) Email Your Email Send Email By Marc Sessler What's next in D.C.? Tampa's cupboard far from empty More Columns > Browns coach Rob Chudzinski was fired Sunday night after one season in Cleveland. When news leaked of Chud's possible dismissal earlier in the day, Browns players were not enthused. "It's just absurd to me that a report would be out like that, about a good coach like that. It's crazy, and that (ticked) me off when I heard that," Browns linebacker D'Qwell Jackson said Sunday afternoon, via The Associated Press. "We are so dysfunctional," one Browns player told NFL Media columnist Michael Silver on Sunday. "These billionaires need to pick somebody and stay with them. These aren't girlfriends. You can't dump them if they (fail to please you) one time." "I'm on the wrong bus and very happy I don't have to sit on bus (No. 1, with Chudzinski) in awkwardness," another member of the team told Silver. NFL Media Insider Ian Rapoport said, via a team source, that the Browns' front office believed the club was getting worse every week. "More time wasn't going to help," said the source. Playoff schedule The first two rounds of the NFL's postseason schedule for the 2013 season were released Sunday night. More ... The front office and eventual head coach will have some smoothing over to do with veterans when the team reconvenes this offseason. "You look at the great franchises," Browns left tackle Joe Thomas told the Akron Beacon Journal, "they don't fire your coach after the first season. You can't do it." It's especially painful for longtime Cleveland players who have watched the ultra-consistent Steelers, Ravens and Bengals reach the playoffs for years on end, while the Browns -- once again -- can't get out of their own way. The " Around The League Podcast" is now available on iTunes! Click here to listen and subscribe. Previous Article Next Article "What's next in D.C.?..." #{comments_count} Comment#{comments_plural} | #{recommendations_count} Recommendation#{recommendations_plural} | E-mail Fan Discussion View all comments Previous Article Next Article Latest Tom Coughlin: I want to continue coaching N.Y. Giants Steelers' Mike Tomlin reacts to missed call in Bolts' win Tampa Bay Buccaneers' cupboard far from empty NFL head coach tracker Rob Chudzinski: I'm shocked by Cleveland Browns exit Jim Schwartz fired by Detroit Lions after five seasons Greg Schiano, GM Mark Dominik fired by Buccaneers N.Y. Jets celebrate announcement of Rex Ryan's return Mike Shanahan wants legacy defined by salary cap fix Washington Redskins coaching vacancy has pros, cons Subscribe More Posts Photo Gallery Going out in style Playoff lives were on the line in Week 17, and teams stopped at nothing to secure a berth. Relive all the battles. View NFL.com Official Tweets {from_user}: {text} MORE TWEETS Back to Top Information Contact Us FAQ | Rule Book Public Relations Jobs: League | Team Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Initiatives NFL Rush Play 60 In the Community NFL Auction Media Info NFL Communications Media Kit Media Guides Player Services NFL Health & Safety NFL Player Care Player Engagement More NFL Sites NFL Youth Tackle USA Football NFL International NFL On Location NFL Extra Points   Pro Football Hall of Fame NFL Ticket Exchange NFL Shop Licensing © 2013 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League. NFL footage © NFL Productions LLC.   Bills Dolphins Patriots Jets Ravens Bengals Browns Steelers Texans Colts Jaguars Titans Broncos Chiefs Raiders Chargers Cowboys Giants Eagles Redskins Bears Lions Packers Vikings Falcons Panthers Saints Buccaneers Cardinals Rams 49ers Seahawks © 2013 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League. NFL footage © NFL Productions LLC. PRIVACY POLICY | Terms & Conditions NFL News CONTENT 15 
