MBA in Sports Management - master.cincodias.com
 Masters Cinco Dias Buscar masters sobre Home » Cursos MBA in Sports Management European University Master en Barcelona (Barcelona) Pedir información gratis Detalles del curso Temario Inicio A elegir Tipo Master Duración 500 horas lectivas Método / Lugar Presencial en Barcelona (Barcelona) Certificado / Título Certificado de asistencia otorgado por European University Descripción Objetivo del curso: The core of our instruction prepares students for entry into the business world, with a Master of Business Administration (MBA) title. Students choose one specified area to specialize. Dirigido a: EU Students are a vibrant and motivated international community. Our students come from all over the world. International exchange leads to greater understanding and appreciation of other and prepares EU graduates for more effective interaction in the global marketplace. Despite all cultural and social differences, there is always one common denominator that bridges the gaps. Students all learn to speak the same international language: Business. Ventajas   Cds, material disponible en intranet Requisitos Ver detalles en el Programa. Precio 16.500 € IVA inc. Más detalles Observaciones: Full-time and Part-time Prácticas en empresa: No incluidas, pero disponibles Alumnos por clase: 25 Contacta directamente con European University Temario Term 1: Management Skills (3) Organizational Behavior (3) Managerial Accounting (3) Marketing (3) Quantitative Business Methods (3) Legal Environment (1) Case Methods Analysis - Seminar (1) Industrial Visits and Invited Managers' Lectures (1) Term 2: Finance (3) Human Resources Management (3) Managerial Economics (3) Strategic Management (3) Management Information Systems (3) Oral and Written Communication Skills (1) Job Career Planning - Seminar (1) Industrial Visits and Invited Managers' Lectures (1) Term 3: Sport Marketing Management (3) Financial Management Applications to Sport (3) Sport Ethics and Social Issues (3) Sports Management (3) Media Relations and Sport (3) Research Report (3) Methodology: The programs are taught in English and/or Spanish and last one year (full-time) or two years (part-time). The courses are given in the evening from Monday to Friday (from 19:00 to 22:00). Admission Requirements: University degree (official copy). Two reference letters. Fluency in English certified by a minimum TOEFL score of 213 (computer based), or English as mother tongue. In addition applicants must meet any two of the following requirements: An overall undergraduate grade point average of at least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale. A minimum GMAT score of 450. Two years or more of effective managerial or professional work experience which can include military services. Personal interview. Campus: Our campus is located in the famous Bonanova area of Barcelona in a modern building, which offers the best study conditions for our students. Classes are always small and personal (average class size is between 20-25 students). Our faculty offers both strong academic credentials and real work experience, making the connection between the workplace and the classroom and providing our students with a truly global experience. cursos relacionados MBA - Full Time EAE - Business School MBA International Eserp Business School - Fundación Universitaria Executive MBA Euncet Business School Máster in International Business & Trade Management (ENG) Online Business School -OBS- Executive MBI-Master in Business Innovation Innopro Consulting - UPC International MBA INSA Business, Marketing & Communication School Máster in International Business & Trade Management (ENG) OBS-UB MBA en Dirección y Gestión de Empresas de Moda y Belleza Esden Global MBA con Especialización en Finanzas IEB - Instituto de Estudios Bursátiles (Posgrados) Executive MBA EAE Distancia / Semipresencial Buscar trabajo Comprar casa Obra nueva Comprar coche Contacto centro Contacto particulares Aviso Legal Politica de privacidad © Prisa Digital S.L. - Gran Vía 32, 28013 Madrid (España) Una empresa de PRISA ElPaís.com Música Santillana Alfaguara Canal + tvi Radio Deportes en AS.com adn Caracol UNO Planeo wradio Economía continental Máxima M80 radio Cadena Dial Kebuena Richmond Moderna Plural tvi24 Cinemanía Rolling Stone Kalipedia Videojuegos Guías Prácticas en ParaSaber.com El viajero Anuncios Clasificados Medios Grupo Prisa Webs de PRISA cerrar ventana cerrar 
